   #ProCon.org Headlines Feed ProCon.org Latest Updates Feed

   [newblue-procon-logo.png]
   UNDERSTAND THE ISSUES.
   UNDERSTAND EACH OTHER.

   (BUTTON) Menu Toggle navigation [procon-newblue-logo-mobile-2.png]
     * HOME
     * GAY MARRIAGE - MENU
          + GAY MARRIAGE - HOME
          + GET STARTED
               o Background of the Issue Top Pro & Con Arguments Top Pro &
                 Con Quotes
          + RECOMMENDED
               o Did You Know? Readers' Comments Video Gallery Gay
                 Marriage around the World Gay Marriage Timeline
                 State-by-State History of Banning and Legalizing Gay
                 Marriage, 1994-2015 Gay Marriage in the US Supreme Court,
                 2015
          + DIG DEEPER
               o Source Biographies Footnotes & Sources Gay Marriage in
                 the US Supreme Court, 2013 Top "Gay-Friendly" and
                 "Gay-Unfriendly" US Companies, 2011 2012 Presidential
                 Candidates' Positions on Gay Marriage US Gay Marriage
                 Polls, 1988-2010 2016 Presidential Candidates' Positions
                 on Gay Marriage
     * ISSUES WE COVER
          + MOST POPULAR
               o Medical Marijuana
               o Gun Control
               o Animal Testing
               o Death Penalty
               o Recreational Marijuana
               o School Uniforms
               o Drinking Age - Lower It?
               o Social Media
               o Euthanasia & Assisted Suicide
               o Illegal Immigration
          + HEALTH & MEDICINE
               o Medical Marijuana
               o Euthanasia & Assisted Suicide
               o Vaccines for Kids
               o Milk - Is It Healthy?
               o Abortion
               o Vegetarianism
               o Obesity a Disease?
               o Obamacare
               o Right to Health Care
               o Prescription Drug Ads
          + EDUCATION
               o School Uniforms
               o Standardized Tests
               o Tablets vs. Textbooks
               o College Education Worth It?
               o Teacher Tenure
               o Student Loan Debt
               o School Vouchers
               o Corporal Punishment
               o Banned Books
               o Homework
          + POLITICS
               o Death Penalty
               o Drinking Age - Lower It?
               o Illegal Immigration
               o Gun Control
               o Recreational Marijuana
               o ACLU - Good for America?
               o Concealed Handguns
               o Sanctuary Cities
               o Under God in the Pledge
          + SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
               o Animal Testing
               o Cell Phones Radiation
               o Alternative Energy vs. Fossil Fuels
               o Climate Change
               o Net Nautrality
               o Police Body Cameras
               o Bottled Water Ban
          + ELECTIONS & PRESIDENTS
               o Felon Voting
               o Ronald Reagan
               o Bill Clinton
               o Voting Machines
               o 2016 Presidential Election
               o Electoral College
               o Lowering the Voting Age to 16
          + WORLD / INTERNATIONAL
               o Israeli-Palestinian Conflict
               o Cuba Embargo
               o Drone Strikes Overseas
          + SEX & GENDER
               o Gay Marriage
               o Prostitution - Legalize It?
               o Born Gay? Origins of Sexual Orientation
          + ENTERTAINMENT & SPORTS
               o Social Media
               o Video Games and Violence
               o Drug Use in Sports
               o Golf - Is It a Sport?
               o Olympics
               o National Anthem Protest
               o Fighting in Hockey
          + ECONOMY & TAXES
               o Minimum Wage
               o Gold Standard
               o Corporate Tax Rate & Jobs
               o Churches and Taxes
               o Social Security Privatization
               o Daylight Savings Time
               o Universal Basic Income
               o Penny - Keep It?
          + YOU MAY ALSO LIKE
               o Watch Our Videos
               o Teachers' Corner
               o Readers' Comments
               o Who Uses ProCon.org?
               o Weekly Tidbits
               o Archived Topics
               o Testimonials
               o Donors & Sponsors
          + GET INVOLVED
               o ProCon.org Events
               o Suggest a Topic
               o Cite This Page
               o Share on Social Media
               o Volunteers / Interns
               o Join
     * ABOUT US
          + ABOUT US
          + HOW WE WORK
          + WATCH OUR VIDEOS
          + FAQS
          + METRICS
          + EVENTS
          + TRAFFIC
          + TESTIMONIALS
          + JOIN
          + DONORS & SPONSORS
          + CONTACT US
     * TEACHERS' CORNER

     * HOME
     * |
     * FAQS
     * |
     * METRICS
     * |
     * EVENTS
     * |
     * TRAFFIC
     * |
     * TESTIMONIALS
     * |
     * DONORS & SPONSORS
     * |
     * CONTACT US

     * ISSUES
       WE COVER
          + Topics A-Z

Topics A-Z
            Abortion
            ACLU - Good or Bad?
            Alternative Energy vs. Fossil Fuels
            Animal Testing
            Banned Books
            Big Three Auto Bailout
            Born Gay? Origins of Sexual Orientation
            Bottled Water Ban
            Cell Phone Radiation
            Churches and Taxes
            Climate Change
            College Education Worth It?
            College Football Playoffs
            Concealed Handguns
            Corporal Punishment
            Corporate Tax Rate & Jobs
            Cuba Embargo
            D.A.R.E. - Good or Bad?
            Daylight Savings Time
            Death Penalty
            Drinking Age - Lower It?
            Drone Strikes Overseas
            Drug Use in Sports
            Electoral College
            Euthanasia & Assisted Suicide
            Felon Voting
            Fighting in Hockey
            Gay Marriage
            Gold Standard
            Golf - Is It a Sport?
            Gun Control
            Homework
            Illegal Immigration
            Insider Trading by Congress
            Israeli-Palestinian Conflict
            Medical Marijuana
            Milk - Is It Healthy?
            Minimum Wage
            National Anthem Protests
            Net Neutrality
            Obamacare
            Obesity a Disease?
            Olympics
            Police Body Cameras
            Penny - Keep It?
            Prescription Drug Ads Good?
            President Bill Clinton
            President Ronald Reagan
            Presidential Election, 2008
            Presidential Election, 2012
            Presidential Election, 2016
            Prostitution - Legalize?
            Recreational Marijuana
            Right to Health Care?
            Sanctuary Cities
            Santa Monica Local Elections, 2014
            School Uniforms
            School Vouchers
            Social Media
            Social Security Privatization
            Standardized Tests
            Student Loan Debt
            Tablets vs. Textbooks
            Teacher Tenure
            Under God in the Pledge
            Universal Basic Income
            US-Iraq War
            Vaccines for Kids
            Vegetarianism
            Video Games and Violence
            Voting Age
            Voting Machines
            WTC Muslim Center
          + Popular

Most Popular
            Medical Marijuana - Should Marijuana Be a Medical Option?
            Gun Control - Should More Gun Control Laws Be Enacted?
            Animal Testing - Should Animals Be Used for Scientific or
            Commercial Testing?
            Death Penalty - Should the Death Penalty Be Allowed?
            Recreational Marijuana - Should Recreational Marijuana Be
            Legal?
            School Uniforms - Should Students Have to Wear School
            Uniforms?
            Drinking Age - Should the Drinking Age Be Lowered from 21 to a
            Younger Age?
            Social Media - Are Social Networking Sites Good for Our
            Society?
            Euthanasia & Assisted Suicide - Should Euthanasia or
            Physician-Assisted Suicide Be Legal?
            Illegal Immigration - What Are the Solutions to Illegal
            Immigration in America?
          + Health & Medicine

Health & Medicine
            Medical Marijuana - Should Marijuana Be a Medical Option?
            Euthanasia & Assisted Suicide - Should Euthanasia or
            Physician-Assisted Suicide Be Legal?
            Vaccines for Kids - Should Any Vaccines Be Required for
            Children?
            Milk - Is Drinking Milk Healthy for Humans?
            Abortion - Should Abortion Be Legal?
            Vegetarianism - Should People Become Vegetarian?
            Obesity - Is Obesity a Disease?
            Obamacare - Is the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
            (Obamacare) Good for America?
            Right to Health Care - Should All Americans Have the Right (Be
            Entitled) to Health Care?
            Prescription Drug Ads - Should Prescription Drugs Be
            Advertised Directly to Consumers?
          + Education

Education
            School Uniforms - Should Students Have to Wear School
            Uniforms?
            Standardized Tests - Is the Use of Standardized Tests
            Improving Education in America?
            Tablets vs. Textbooks - Should Tablets Replace Textbooks in
            K-12 Schools?
            College Education - Is a College Education Worth It?
            Teacher Tenure - Should Teachers Get Tenure?
            Student Loan Debt - Should Student Loan Debt Be Easier to
            Discharge in Bankruptcy?
            School Vouchers - Top 4 Pros and Cons
            Corporal Punishment - Should Corporal Punishment Be Used in
            K-12 Schools?
            Banned Books - Should parents or other adults be able to ban
            books from schools and libraries?
            Homework - Is Homework Beneficial?
          + Politics

Politics
            Death Penalty - Should the Death Penalty Be Allowed?
            Drinking Age - Should the Drinking Age Be Lowered from 21 to a
            Younger Age?
            Illegal Immigration - What Are the Solutions to Illegal
            Immigration in America?
            Gun Control - Should More Gun Control Laws Be Enacted?
            Recreational Marijuana - Should Recreational Marijuana Be
            Legal?
            ACLU - Is the ACLU Good for America?
            Concealed Handguns - Should Adults Have the Right to Carry a
            Concealed Handgun?
            Sanctuary Cities - Should Sanctuary Cities Receive Federal
            Funding?
            Under God in the Pledge - Should the Words "under God" Be in
            the US Pledge of Allegiance?
          + Science & Technology

Science & Technology
            Animal Testing - Should Animals Be Used for Scientific or
            Commercial Testing?
            Cell Phone Radiation - Are Cell Phones Safe?
            Alternative Energy vs Fossil Fuels - Can Alternative Energy
            Effectively Replace Fossil Fuels?
            Climate Change - Is Human Activity Primarily Responsible for
            Global Climate Change?
            Net Neutrality - Should Net Neutrality Be Restored?
            Police Body Cameras - Should police officers wear body
            cameras?
            Bottled Water Ban - Should Bottled Water Be Banned?
          + Elections & Presidents

Elections & Presidents
            Felon Voting - Should Felons Who Have Completed Their Sentence
            (Incarceration, Probation, and Parole) Be Allowed to Vote?
            Ronald Reagan - Was Ronald Reagan a Good President?
            Bill Clinton - Was Bill Clinton a Good President?
            Voting Machines - Do Electronic Voting Machines Improve the
            Voting Process?
            2016 Presidential Election - The Candidates and Where They
            Stand on the Issues (ARCHIVED)
            Electoral College - Should the United States Use the Electoral
            College in Presidential Elections?
            Voting Age - Should the Voting Age be Lowered to 16?
          + World/International

World / International
            Israeli-Palestinian Conflict - What Are the Solutions to the
            Israeli-Palestinian Conflict?
            Cuba Embargo - Should the United States Maintain Its Embargo
            against Cuba?
            US Drones Strikes Overseas - Should the United States Continue
            Its Use of Drone Strikes Overseas?
          + Sex & Gender

Sex & Gender
            Gay Marriage - Should Gay Marriage Be Legal?
            Prostitution - Should Prostitution Be Legal?
            Born Gay? - Is Sexual Orientation Determined at Birth?
          + Entertainment & Sports

Entertainment & Sports
            Social Media - Are Social Networking Sites Good for Our
            Society?
            Video Games and Violence - Do Violent Video Games Contribute
            to Youth Violence?
            Drug Use in Sports - Should Performance Enhancing Drugs (Such
            as Steroids) Be Accepted in Sports?
            Golf - Is It a Sport?
            Olympics - Are the Olympic Games an Overall Benefit for Their
            Host Countries and Cities?
            National Anthem Protests - Is Refusing to Stand for the
            National Anthem an Appropriate Form of Protest?
            Fighting in Hockey - Should fighting be allowed in hockey?
          + Economy & Taxes

Economy & Taxes
            Minimum Wage - Should the Federal Minimum Wage Be Increased?
            Gold Standard - Should the United States Return to a Gold
            Standard?
            Corporate Tax Rate & Jobs - Does Lowering the Federal
            Corporate Income Tax Rate Create Jobs?
            Churches and Taxes - Should Churches (Defined as Churches,
            Temples, Mosques, Synagogues, etc.) Remain Tax-Exempt?
            Social Security Privatization - Should Social Security Be
            Privatized?
            Daylight Savings Time - Should the United States Keep Daylight
            Saving Time?
            Universal Basic Income - Top 3 Pros and Cons
            Penny - Should the Penny Stay in Circulation?
          + You May Also Like

You May Also Like
            Watch our Videos
            Teachers' Corner
            Readers' Comments
            Who Uses ProCon.org?
            Weekly Tidbits
            Archived Topics
            Testimonials
            Donors & Sponsors
          + Get Involved

Get Involved
            ProCon.org Events
            Suggest a Topic
            Cite This Page
            Share on Social Media
            Volunteers / Interns
            Join


     * ABOUT
       US


     * JOIN


     * WATCH
       OUR VIDEOS


     * TEACHERS'
       CORNER

   GAY MARRIAGE
   [gay-marriage-wide.jpg]
   Should Gay Marriage Be Legal?
   On June 26, 2015, the US Supreme Court ruled that gay marriage is a
   right protected by the US Constitution in all 50 states. Prior to their
   decision, same-sex marriage was already legal in 37 states and
   Washington DC, but was banned in the remaining 13. US public opinion
   had shifted significantly over the years, from 27% approval of gay
   marriage in 1996 to 60% in 2015, the year it became legal throughout
   the United States, to 67% in 2018.
   Proponents of legal gay marriage contend that gay marriage bans are
   discriminatory and unconstitutional, and that same-sex couples should
   have access to all the benefits enjoyed by different-sex couples.
   Opponents contend that marriage has traditionally been defined as being
   between one man and one woman, and that marriage is primarily for
   procreation. Read more background...

   Top Pro & Con Arguments
   Denying some people the option to marry is discriminatory and creates a
   second class of citizens. On July 25, 2014 Miami-Dade County Circuit
   Court Judge Sarah Zabel ruled Florida's gay marriage ban
   unconstitutional and stated that the ban "serves only to hurt, to
   discriminate, to deprive same-sex couples and their families of equal
   dignity, to label and treat them as second-class citizens, and to deem
   them unworthy of participation in one of the fundamental institutions
   of our society." [105] Christine Gregoire, former Washington governor,
   said in Jan. 2012: "Throughout our history, we have fought
   discrimination. We have joined together to recognize equality for
   racial minorities, women, people with disabilities, immigrants...
   [Legalizing gay marriage] is the right thing to do and it is time."
   [139] US Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Richard Posner, in
   overturning same-sex marriage bans in Wisconsin and Indiana in Sep.
   2014, wrote that the bans "discriminate against a minority defined by
   an immutable characteristic." [40] As well as discrimination based on
   sexual orientation, gay marriage bans discriminate based on one's sex.
   As explained by David S. Cohen, JD, Associate Professor at the Drexel
   University School of Law, "Imagine three people—Nancy, Bill, and Tom...
   Nancy, a woman, can marry Tom, but Bill, a man, cannot... Nancy can do
   something (marry Tom) that Bill cannot, simply because Nancy is a woman
   and Bill is a man." [122]
   Same-sex couples should have access to the same benefits enjoyed by
   heterosexual married couples. There are 1,138 benefits, rights and
   protections available to married couples in federal law alone,
   according to a General Accounting Office assessment made in 2004. [86]
   Benefits only available to married couples include hospital visitation
   during an illness, the option of filing a joint tax return to reduce a
   tax burden, access to family health coverage, US residency and family
   unification for partners from another country, and bereavement leave
   and inheritance rights if a partner dies. [6] [95] Married couples also
   have access to protections if the relationship ends, such as child
   custody, spousal or child support, and an equitable division of
   property. [93] Married couples in the US armed forces are offered
   health insurance and other benefits unavailable to domestic partners.
   [125] The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the US Department of Labor
   also recognize married couples, for the purpose of granting tax,
   retirement and health insurance benefits. [126] The US federal
   government does not grant equivalent benefits to gay couples in civil
   unions or domestic partnerships. [153] [154] An Oct. 2, 2009 analysis
   by the New York Times estimated that same-sex couples denied marriage
   benefits will incur an additional $41,196 to $467,562 in expenses over
   their lifetimes compared with married heterosexual couples. [7] A Jan.
   2014 analysis published by the Atlantic concluded that unmarried women
   pay up to one million dollars more over their lifetimes than married
   women for healthcare, taxes, and other expenses. [94]
   The concept of "traditional marriage" has changed over time, and the
   definition of marriage as always being between one man and one woman is
   historically inaccurate. Harvard University historian Nancy F. Cott
   stated that until two centuries ago, "monogamous households were a
   tiny, tiny portion" of the world's population, and were found only in
   "Western Europe and little settlements in North America." Polygamy has
   been widespread throughout history, according to Brown University
   political scientist Rose McDermott, PhD. [110] [106] Interracial
   marriage was once illegal in a majority of US states, and was still
   banned in half of US states until the 1950s. [108] Official unions
   between same-sex couples, indistinguishable from marriages except for
   gender, are believed by some scholars to have been common until the
   13th Century in many countries, with the ceremonies performed in
   churches and the union sealed with a kiss between the two parties.
   [106]
   Gay marriage is protected by the US Constitution's commitments to
   liberty and equality. The US Supreme Court ruled 7-2 in the 1974 case
   Cleveland Board of Education v. LaFleur that the "freedom of personal
   choice in matters of marriage and family life is one of the liberties
   protected by the Due Process Clause." US District Judge Vaughn Walker
   wrote on Aug. 4, 2010 that Prop. 8 in California banning gay marriage
   was "unconstitutional under both the Due Process and Equal Protection
   Clauses." [41] The Due Process Clause in both the Fifth and 14th
   Amendments of the US Constitution states that no person shall be
   "deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law."
   [111] The Equal Protection Clause in the 14th Amendment states that no
   state shall "deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
   protection of the laws." [112]
   Marriage is an internationally recognized human right for all people.
   Since 1888 the US Supreme Court has declared 14 times that marriage is
   a fundamental right for all, according to the American Foundation for
   Equal Rights. [3] Article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human
   Rights guarantees "men and women of full age, without any limitation
   due to race, nationality or religion... the right to marry and to found
   a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during
   marriage and at its dissolution." [103] Amnesty International states
   that "this non-discrimination principle has been interpreted by UN
   treaty bodies and numerous inter-governmental human rights bodies as
   prohibiting discrimination based on gender or sexual orientation.
   Non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation has therefore
   become an internationally recognized principle." [104]
   Same-sex marriage is a civil right. The NAACP (National Association for
   the Advancement of Colored People), on May 21, 2012, named same-sex
   marriage as "one of the key civil rights struggles of our time." [61]
   In 1967 the US Supreme Court unanimously confirmed in Loving v.
   Virginia that marriage is "one of the basic civil rights of man." [60]
   The White House website lists same-sex marriage amongst a selection of
   civil rights, along with freedom from employment discrimination, equal
   pay for women, and fair sentencing for minority criminals. [118]
   Marriage is not only for procreation, otherwise infertile couples or
   couples not wishing to have children would be prevented from marrying.
   Ability or desire to create offspring has never been a qualification
   for marriage. From 1970 through 2012 roughly 30% of all US households
   were married couples without children, and in 2012, married couples
   without children outnumbered married couples with children by 9%. [96]
   6% of married women aged 15-44 are infertile, according to the US
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. [97] In a 2010 Pew Research
   Center survey, both married and unmarried people rated love,
   commitment, and companionship higher than having children as "very
   important" reasons to get married, and only 44% of unmarried people and
   59% of married people rated having children as a very important reason.
   [42] Several US presidents never had their own biological children,
   including George Washington, often referred to as "the Father of Our
   Country." [9] [12] As US Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan noted, a
   marriage license would be granted to a couple in which the man and
   woman are both over the age of 55, even though "there are not a lot of
   children coming out of that marriage." [88]
   Gay marriages can bring financial gain to federal, state, and local
   governments and can help boost the economy. Government revenue from
   marriage comes from marriage licenses, higher income taxes in some
   circumstances (the so-called "marriage penalty"), and decreases in
   costs for state benefit programs. [4] In July 2012 New York City Mayor
   Michael Bloomberg announced that gay marriage had contributed $259
   million to the city's economy since the practice became legal there in
   July 2011. [43] In 2012, the Williams Institute at the University of
   California at Los Angeles (UCLA) found that in the first five years
   after Massachusetts legalized gay marriage in 2004, same-sex wedding
   expenditures (such as venue rental, wedding cakes, etc.) added $111
   million to the state's economy. [114] A 2014 series of reports also by
   the Williams Institute estimated that legalizing same-sex marriage
   would boost the economies of the 11 US states studied by a total of
   $723 million over three years. [87] The Congressional Budget Office
   estimated in 2004 that federally-recognized gay marriage would cut the
   budget deficit by around $450 million a year. [89]
   Gay couples make good parents. A June 2014 peer-reviewed University of
   Melbourne study showed that children raised by same-sex parents score
   about six percent higher than the general population on measures of
   general health and family cohesion. [92] A study published in
   Pediatrics on June 7, 2010 found that children of lesbian mothers were
   rated higher than children of heterosexual parents in social and
   academic competence and had fewer social problems. [45] A July 2010
   study found that children of gay fathers were "as well-adjusted as
   those adopted by heterosexual parents." [46] As former Washington Post
   columnist Ezra Klein wrote, "We should be begging gay couples to adopt
   children. We should see this as a great boon that gay marriage could
   bring to kids who need nothing more than two loving parents." [68] In
   the United States, around 115,000 children are waiting to be adopted.
   [44]
   Gay marriage bans cause humiliation and uncertainty for children being
   raised by same-sex couples. In ruling Texas' gay marriage ban
   unconstitutional, San Antonio-based federal judge Orlando Garcia stated
   that the ban "causes needless stigmatization and humiliation for
   children being raised by the loving same-sex couples being targeted."
   [138] Children of unmarried same-sex couples are denied the stability
   that comes with having married parents, including the guarantee of
   child support in the case of divorce and an automatic legal connection
   to both parents. [107] If no legal relationship is established, the
   child cannot be sure of receiving financial support from the
   non-biologically related partner, and is not guaranteed an inheritance
   if that partner dies without leaving a will. [151]
   Marriage provides both physical and psychological health benefits, and
   banning gay marriage increases rates of psychological disorders. [5]
   The American Psychological Association, American Psychiatric
   Association, and others wrote in a Sep. 2007 amicus brief, "...allowing
   same-sex couples to marry would give them access to the social support
   that already facilitates and strengthens heterosexual marriages, with
   all of the psychological and physical health benefits associated with
   that support." [47] A 2012 study by researchers from UCLA, San
   Francisco State University, and the University of Massachusetts at
   Amherst found that same-sex married couples were "significantly less
   distressed than lesbian, gay, and bisexual persons not in a legally
   recognized relationship." [113] A 2010 analysis published in the
   American Journal of Public Health found that after their states had
   banned gay marriage, gay, lesbian and bisexual people suffered a 37%
   increase in mood disorders, a 42% increase in alcohol-use disorders,
   and a 248% increase in generalized anxiety disorders. [69]
   Legalizing gay marriage will not harm the institution of marriage, and
   same-sex marriages may even be more stable than heterosexual marriages.
   A study published on Apr. 13, 2009 in Social Science Quarterly found
   that "[l]aws permitting same-sex marriage or civil unions have no
   adverse effect on marriage, divorce, and abortion rates, [or] the
   percent of children born out of wedlock." [48] A Nov. 2011 study by
   UCLA's Williams Institute reported that the rate at which legally
   recognized same-sex couples (in marriages or civil unions, etc.) end
   their relationships is 1.1% on average, while 2% of married
   different-sex couples divorce annually. [115] The Executive Board of
   the American Anthropological Association found that more than a century
   of research has shown "no support whatsoever for the view that either
   civilization or viable social orders depend upon marriage as an
   exclusively heterosexual institution. Rather, anthropological research
   supports the conclusion that a vast array of family types, including
   families built upon same-sex partnerships, can contribute to stable and
   humane societies." [8]
   Gay marriage legalization is correlated with lower divorce rates, while
   gay marriage bans are correlated with higher divorce rates.
   Massachusetts, which became the first US state to legalize gay marriage
   in 2004, had the lowest divorce rate in the country in 2008. Its
   divorce rate declined 21% between 2003 and 2008. Alaska, which altered
   its constitution to prohibit gay marriage in 1998, saw a 17.2% increase
   in its divorce rate over the same period. The seven states with the
   highest divorce rates between 2003 and 2008 all had constitutional
   prohibitions to gay marriage. [2]
   Legal marriage is a secular institution that should not be limited by
   religious objections to same-sex marriage. Religious institutions can
   decline to marry gay and lesbian couples if they wish, but they should
   not dictate marriage laws for society at large. As explained by People
   for the American Way, "As a legal matter, marriage is a civil
   institution... Marriage is also a religious institution, defined
   differently by different faiths and congregations. In America, the
   distinction can get blurry because states permit clergy to carry out
   both religious and civil marriage in a single ceremony. Religious Right
   leaders have exploited that confusion by claiming that granting
   same-sex couples equal access to civil marriage would somehow also
   redefine the religious institution of marriage... this is grounded in
   falsehood and deception." [132] Nancy Cott, PhD, testified in Perry v.
   Schwarzenegger that "[c]ivil law has always been supreme in defining
   and regulating marriage." [41]
   Many religious leaders and churches support gay marriage and say it is
   consistent with scripture. Gene Robinson, openly gay former Bishop of
   the Episcopal Diocese of New Hampshire, stated in Sep. 2012: "Scripture
   says where love is, there is God also. And they [religious people] see
   that love in our families, and I think people can't help but be
   supportive." [128] Lee Jefferson, Assistant Professor of Religion at
   Centre College, wrote that the Bible makes no mention of same-sex
   marriage at all, nor does it make reference to sexual orientation as it
   is understood today. [129] Reform Judaism, which comprises about 80% of
   the American Jewish population, endorses same-sex marriage, and the
   Central Conference of American Rabbis has supported gay marriage since
   1996. [130] The Episcopal Church stated in Resolution A095, made in
   2006, that it "oppose[s] any state or federal constitutional amendment
   that prohibits same-sex civil marriage or civil unions." The
   Presbyterian Church (USA) voted in June 2014 to allow its pastors to
   marry same-sex couples. The United Church of Christ General Synod voted
   in July 2005 to affirm "equal marriage rights for couples regardless of
   gender." The 1996 General Assembly of the Unitarian Universalist
   Association adopted "a position in support of legal recognition for
   marriage between members of the same sex." [119] [141][142] [143]
   The institution of marriage has traditionally been defined as being
   between a man and a woman. In upholding gay marriage bans in Kentucky,
   Michigan, Ohio and Tennessee on Nov. 6, 2014, 6th US District Court of
   Appeals Judge Jeffrey S. Sutton wrote that "marriage has long been a
   social institution defined by relationships between men and women. So
   long defined, the tradition is measured in millennia, not centuries or
   decades. So widely shared, the tradition until recently had been
   adopted by all governments and major religions of the world." [117] In
   the Oct. 15, 1971 decision Baker v. Nelson, the Supreme Court of
   Minnesota found that "the institution of marriage as a union of man and
   woman, uniquely involving the procreation and rearing of children
   within a family, is as old as the book of Genesis." [49] John F.
   Harvey, MA, STL, late Catholic priest, wrote in July 2009 that
   "Throughout the history of the human race the institution of marriage
   has been understood as the complete spiritual and bodily communion of
   one man and one woman." [18] [109]
   Marriage is for procreation and should not be extended to same-sex
   couples because they cannot produce children together. Allowing gay
   marriage would only further shift the purpose of marriage from
   producing and raising children to adult gratification. [19] A
   California Supreme Court ruling from 1859 stated that "the first
   purpose of matrimony, by the laws of nature and society, is
   procreation." [90] Nobel Prize-winning philosopher Bertrand Russell
   stated that "it is through children alone that sexual relations become
   important to society, and worthy to be taken cognizance of by a legal
   institution." [91] Court papers filed in July 2014 by attorneys
   defending Arizona's gay marriage ban stated that "the State regulates
   marriage for the primary purpose of channeling potentially procreative
   sexual relationships into enduring unions for the sake of joining
   children to both their mother and their father... Same-sex couples can
   never provide a child with both her biological mother and her
   biological father." Contrary to the pro gay marriage argument that some
   different-sex couples cannot have children or don't want them, even in
   those cases there is still the potential to produce children. Seemingly
   infertile heterosexual couples sometimes produce children, and medical
   advances may allow others to procreate in the future. Heterosexual
   couples who do not wish to have children are still biologically capable
   of having them, and may change their minds. [98]
   Children need both a mother and a father. Girls who are raised apart
   from their fathers are reportedly at higher risk for early sexual
   activity and teenage pregnancy. [52] Children without a mother are
   deprived of the emotional security and unique advice that mothers
   provide. A 2012 study by Mark Regnerus, PhD, Associate Professor of
   Sociology at the University of Texas at Austin, found that children
   raised by parents who had same-sex relationships suffered more
   difficulties in life (including sexual abuse and unemployment in later
   life) than children raised by "intact biological famil[ies]." [133]
   Doug Mainwaring, the openly gay co-founder of National Capital Tea
   Party Patriots, stated that "it became increasingly apparent to me,
   even if I found somebody else exactly like me, who loved my kids as
   much as I do, there would still be a gaping hole in their lives because
   they need a mom... I don't want to see children being engineered for
   same-sex couples where there is either a mom missing or a dad missing."
   [53]
   Legalizing gay marriage could lead down a "slippery slope," giving
   people in polygamous, incestuous, bestial, and other nontraditional
   relationships the right to marry. [10] Glen Lavy, JD, senior counsel
   with the Alliance Defense Fund, argued in a May 21, 2008 Los Angeles
   Times op-ed, "The movement for polygamy and polyamory is poised to use
   the successes of same-sex couples as a springboard for further
   de-institutionalizing marriage." [11] In Apr. 2013 Slate writer Jillian
   Keenan wrote: "Just like heterosexual marriage is no better or worse
   than homosexual marriage, marriage between two consenting adults is not
   inherently more or less 'correct' than marriage among three (or four,
   or six) consenting adults." [71] James C. Dobson, Founder and Chairman
   of Focus on the Family, predicted in 2005 that legalizing same-sex
   marriage will enable "group marriage," "marriage between daddies and
   little girls," and "marriage between a man and his donkey." [136]
   Allowing gay couples to wed could further weaken the institution of
   marriage. Traditional marriage is already threatened with high divorce
   rates (between 40% and 50%), and 40.7% of babies were born to unmarried
   mothers in 2012. [50] [51] [116] Former US Senator (R-PA) and
   presidential candidate Rick Santorum stated that "Legalization of gay
   marriage would further undermine an institution that is essential to
   the well-being of children and our society. Do we need to confuse
   future generations of Americans even more about the role and importance
   of an institution that is so critical to the stability of our country?"
   [137] Ryan T. Anderson, William E. Simon Fellow in Religion and a Free
   Society at The Heritage Foundation, said "In recent decades, marriage
   has been weakened by a revisionist view that is more about adults’
   desires than children’s needs... Redefining marriage to include
   same-sex relationships is the culmination of this revisionism, and it
   would leave emotional intensity as the only thing that sets marriage
   apart from other bonds." [70]
   Homosexuality is immoral and unnatural. J. Matt Barber, Associate Dean
   for Online Programs at Liberty University School of Law, stated that
   "Every individual engaged in the homosexual lifestyle, who has adopted
   a homosexual identity, they know, intuitively, that what they're doing
   is immoral, unnatural, and self-destructive, yet they thirst for that
   affirmation." A 2003 set of guidelines signed by Pope John Paul II
   stated: "There are absolutely no grounds for considering homosexual
   unions to be in any way similar or even remotely analogous to God's
   plan for marriage and family... Marriage is holy, while homosexual acts
   go against the natural moral law." [147] Former Arkansas governor and
   Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee stated in Oct. 2014
   that gay marriage is "inconsistent with nature and nature’s law." [148]
   Gay marriage is contrary to the word of God and is incompatible with
   the beliefs, sacred texts, and traditions of many religious groups. The
   Bible, in Leviticus 18:22, states: "Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as
   with womankind: it is abomination," thus condemning homosexual
   relationships. [120] In Islamic tradition, several hadiths (passages
   attributed to the Prophet Muhammad) condemn gay and lesbian
   relationships, including the sayings "When a man mounts another man,
   the throne of God shakes," and "Sihaq [lesbian sex] of women is zina
   [illegitimate sexual intercourse]." [121] The Catholic Church, United
   Methodist Church, Southern Baptist Convention, Church of Jesus Christ
   of Latter-day Saints, National Association of Evangelicals, and
   American Baptist Churches USA all oppose same-sex marriage. [119] Two
   orthodox Jewish groups, the Orthodox Agudath Israel of America and the
   Orthodox Union, also oppose gay marriage, as does mainstream Islam.
   [13] [119] According to a July 31, 2003 statement from the Congregation
   for the Doctrine of the Faith and approved by Pope John Paul II,
   marriage "was established by the Creator with its own nature, essential
   properties and purpose. No ideology can erase from the human spirit the
   certainty that marriage exists solely between a man and a woman…" [54]
   Pope Benedict stated in Jan. 2012 that gay marriage threatened "the
   future of humanity itself." [145]
   Legalizing gay marriage often leads to an end to domestic partnership
   benefits for gay and straight couples, which disadvantages couples who
   choose not to get married. Maryland ended health insurance benefits for
   new domestic partnerships after same-sex marriage became legal in the
   state in 2013. [124] [135] The state of Washington automatically
   converted domestic partnerships to marriages when they legalized gay
   marriage in 2012, providing no option to retain domestic partnerships
   or civil unions unless one partner is at least 62 years old. [134]
   [123] The US Defense Department announced in Aug. 2013 that it would
   grant health insurance and other benefits to same-sex married partners
   of US troops, but that domestic partners would no longer be granted the
   same benefits. [125] The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the US
   Department of Labor recognized same-sex married couples for the purpose
   of granting tax, retirement, and health insurance benefits after the US
   Supreme Court declared part of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA)
   unconstitutional in 2013, but they did not include domestic
   partnerships or civil unions. [126]
   Gay marriage will accelerate the assimilation of gays into mainstream
   heterosexual culture to the detriment of the homosexual community. The
   gay community has created its own vibrant culture. By reducing the
   differences in opportunities and experiences between gay and
   heterosexual people, this unique culture may cease to exist. Lesbian
   activist M.V. Lee Badgett, PhD, Director of the Center for Public
   Policy and Administration at the University of Massachusetts at
   Amherst, stated that for many gay activists "marriage means adopting
   heterosexual forms of family and giving up distinctively gay family
   forms and perhaps even gay and lesbian culture." [14] Paula Ettelbrick,
   JD, Professor of Law and Women's Studies, wrote in 1989, "Marriage runs
   contrary to two of the primary goals of the lesbian and gay movement:
   the affirmation of gay identity and culture and the validation of many
   forms of relationships." [15]
   Marriage is an outmoded, oppressive institution that should be
   weakened, not expanded. LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender)
   activist collective Against Equality states that "Gay marriage apes
   hetero privilege... [and] increases economic inequality by perpetuating
   a system which deems married beings more worthy of the basics like
   health care and economic rights." [84] The leaders of the Gay
   Liberation Front in New York said in July 1969, "We expose the
   institution of marriage as one of the most insidious and basic
   sustainers of the system. The family is the microcosm of oppression."
   [16] Self-described queer activist Anders Zanichkowsky stated in June
   2013 that the campaign for gay marriage "intentionally and maliciously
   erases and excludes so many queer people and cultures, particularly
   trans and gender non-conforming people, poor queer people, and queer
   people in non-traditional families... marriage thinks non-married
   people are deviant and not truly deserving of civil rights." [127]
   People should not have their tax dollars used to support something they
   believe is wrong. Peter S. Sprigg, MDiv, Senior Fellow for Policy
   Studies at the Family Research Council, said that if gay marriage were
   legalized, "[t]axpayers, consumers, and businesses would be forced to
   subsidize homosexual relationships... One of the key arguments often
   heard in support of homosexual civil marriage revolves around all the
   government 'benefits' that homosexuals claim they are denied. Many of
   these 'benefits' involve one thing–taxpayer money that homosexuals are
   eager to get their hands on." [146] Gay marriage would entitle gay
   couples to typical marriage benefits including claiming a tax exemption
   for a spouse, receiving social security payments from a deceased
   spouse, and coverage by a spouse’s health insurance policy, largely at
   taxpayers' expense. On Dec. 17, 2009 the Congressional Budget Office
   estimated that the cost to the federal government of extending
   employment benefits to same-sex domestic partners of certain federal
   employees (making no mention of additional costs such as Social
   Security and inheritance taxes) would be $596 million in mandatory
   spending and $302 million in discretionary spending between 2010 and
   2019. [37]
   Marriage is a privilege, not a right. The US Constitution contains no
   explicit right to marry. [99] The European Court of Human Rights ruled
   on June 24, 2010 that the state has a valid interest in protecting the
   traditional definition of marriage, and stated that the Convention for
   the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms "enshrined the
   traditional concept of marriage as being between a man and a woman."
   [101] [102] Society can choose not to allow same-sex couples to marry,
   just as it does not allow a person to marry more than one partner or
   allow minors or close relatives to marry. [100] Matthew D. Staver, JD,
   Dean of the Liberty University School of Law, explained: "The unifying
   characteristics of the protected classes within the Civil Rights Act of
   1964 include (1) a history of longstanding, widespread discrimination,
   (2) economic disadvantage, and (3) immutable characteristics... 'Sexual
   orientation' does not meet any of the three objective criteria shared
   by the historically protected civil rights categories." [62]
   Legalizing gay marriage advances the "homosexual agenda" and unfairly
   paints opponents as bigots. The Illinois Family Institute states that
   if gay marriage is legalized, "Children will be taught that
   homosexuality is morally equivalent to heterosexuality... that children
   do not have any inherent rights to know and be raised by a mother and a
   father... [and] that opposition to the legalization of 'same-sex
   marriage' was equivalent to opposition to the legalization of
   interracial marriage. They will be taught that opposition to both was
   motivated by ignorance and hatred." [85] Lou Sheldon, Founder of the
   Traditional Values Coalition, warned of the influence on children of
   the "homosexual agenda," writing that "[o]ur little children are being
   targeted by the homosexuals and liberals... To be brainwashed to think
   that homosexuality is the moral equivalent of heterosexuality. We can't
   let that happen." [150]
   Civil unions and domestic partnerships can provide the protections and
   benefits gay couples need without changing the definition of marriage.
   Privileges available to couples in civil unions and domestic
   partnerships can include health insurance benefits, inheritance without
   a will, the ability to file state taxes jointly, and hospital
   visitation rights. [155] [156] 2016 presidential candidate and former
   Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina stated that civil unions are adequate
   as an equivalent to marriage for same-sex couples: "Benefits are being
   bestowed to gay couples [in civil unions]... I believe we need to
   respect those who believe that the word marriage has a spiritual
   foundation... Why can't we respect and tolerate that while at the same
   time saying government cannot bestow benefits unequally." [157] 43rd US
   President George W. Bush expressed his support for same-sex civil
   unions while in office: "I don't think we should deny people rights to
   a civil union, a legal arrangement, if that's what a state chooses to
   do so... I strongly believe that marriage ought to be defined as
   between a union between a man and a woman. Now, having said that,
   states ought to be able to have the right to pass laws that enable
   people to be able to have rights like others." [158]

   Top Pro & Con Arguments
   Pro
   1

   Denying some people the option to marry is discriminatory and creates a
   second class of citizens. On July 25, 2014 Miami-Dade County Circuit
   Court… Read More
   Pro
   1

Denying some people the option to marry is discriminatory and creates a
second class of citizens.

   On July 25, 2014 Miami-Dade County Circuit Court Judge Sarah Zabel
   ruled Florida's gay marriage ban unconstitutional and stated that the
   ban "serves only to hurt, to discriminate, to deprive same-sex couples
   and their families of equal dignity, to label and treat them as
   second-class citizens, and to deem them unworthy of participation in
   one of the fundamental institutions of our society." [105] Christine
   Gregoire, former Washington governor, said in Jan. 2012: "Throughout
   our history, we have fought discrimination. We have joined together to
   recognize equality for racial minorities, women, people with
   disabilities, immigrants... [Legalizing gay marriage] is the right
   thing to do and it is time." [139] US Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals
   Judge Richard Posner, in overturning same-sex marriage bans in
   Wisconsin and Indiana in Sep. 2014, wrote that the bans "discriminate
   against a minority defined by an immutable characteristic." [40] As
   well as discrimination based on sexual orientation, gay marriage bans
   discriminate based on one's sex. As explained by David S. Cohen, JD,
   Associate Professor at the Drexel University School of Law, "Imagine
   three people—Nancy, Bill, and Tom... Nancy, a woman, can marry Tom, but
   Bill, a man, cannot... Nancy can do something (marry Tom) that Bill
   cannot, simply because Nancy is a woman and Bill is a man." [122]
   Pro
   2

   Same-sex couples should have access to the same benefits enjoyed by
   heterosexual married couples. There are 1,138 benefits, rights and
   protections... Read More
   Pro
   2

Same-sex couples should have access to the same benefits enjoyed by
heterosexual married couples.

   There are 1,138 benefits, rights and protections available to married
   couples in federal law alone, according to a General Accounting Office
   assessment made in 2004. [86] Benefits only available to married
   couples include hospital visitation during an illness, the option of
   filing a joint tax return to reduce a tax burden, access to family
   health coverage, US residency and family unification for partners from
   another country, and bereavement leave and inheritance rights if a
   partner dies. [6] [95] Married couples also have access to protections
   if the relationship ends, such as child custody, spousal or child
   support, and an equitable division of property. [93] Married couples in
   the US armed forces are offered health insurance and other benefits
   unavailable to domestic partners. [125] The Internal Revenue Service
   (IRS) and the US Department of Labor also recognize married couples,
   for the purpose of granting tax, retirement and health insurance
   benefits. [126] The US federal government does not grant equivalent
   benefits to gay couples in civil unions or domestic partnerships. [153]
   [154] An Oct. 2, 2009 analysis by the New York Times estimated that
   same-sex couples denied marriage benefits will incur an additional
   $41,196 to $467,562 in expenses over their lifetimes compared with
   married heterosexual couples. [7] A Jan. 2014 analysis published by the
   Atlantic concluded that unmarried women pay up to one million dollars
   more over their lifetimes than married women for healthcare, taxes, and
   other expenses. [94]
   Pro
   3

   The concept of "traditional marriage" has changed over time, and the
   definition of marriage as always being between one man and one woman is
   historically... Read More
   Pro
   3

The concept of "traditional marriage" has changed over time, and the
definition of marriage as always being between one man and one woman is
historically inaccurate.

   Harvard University historian Nancy F. Cott stated that until two
   centuries ago, "monogamous households were a tiny, tiny portion" of the
   world's population, and were found only in "Western Europe and little
   settlements in North America." Polygamy has been widespread throughout
   history, according to Brown University political scientist Rose
   McDermott, PhD. [110] [106] Interracial marriage was once illegal in a
   majority of US states, and was still banned in half of US states until
   the 1950s. [108] Official unions between same-sex couples,
   indistinguishable from marriages except for gender, are believed by
   some scholars to have been common until the 13th Century in many
   countries, with the ceremonies performed in churches and the union
   sealed with a kiss between the two parties. [106]
   Pro
   4

   Gay marriage is protected by the US Constitution's commitments to
   liberty and equality. The US Supreme Court ruled 7-2 in the 1974 case
   Cleveland Board... Read More
   Pro
   4

Gay marriage is protected by the US Constitution's commitments to liberty and
equality.

   The US Supreme Court ruled 7-2 in the 1974 case Cleveland Board of
   Education v. LaFleur that the "freedom of personal choice in matters of
   marriage and family life is one of the liberties protected by the Due
   Process Clause." US District Judge Vaughn Walker wrote on Aug. 4, 2010
   that Prop. 8 in California banning gay marriage was "unconstitutional
   under both the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses." [41] The Due
   Process Clause in both the Fifth and 14th Amendments of the US
   Constitution states that no person shall be "deprived of life, liberty,
   or property, without due process of law." [111] The Equal Protection
   Clause in the 14th Amendment states that no state shall "deny to any
   person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." [112]
   Pro
   5

   Marriage is an internationally recognized human right for all people.
   Since 1888 the US Supreme Court has declared 14 times that marriage is
   a fundamental... Read More
   Pro
   5

Marriage is an internationally recognized human right for all people.

   Since 1888 the US Supreme Court has declared 14 times that marriage is
   a fundamental right for all, according to the American Foundation for
   Equal Rights. [3] Article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human
   Rights guarantees "men and women of full age, without any limitation
   due to race, nationality or religion... the right to marry and to found
   a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during
   marriage and at its dissolution." [103] Amnesty International states
   that "this non-discrimination principle has been interpreted by UN
   treaty bodies and numerous inter-governmental human rights bodies as
   prohibiting discrimination based on gender or sexual orientation.
   Non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation has therefore
   become an internationally recognized principle." [104]
   Pro
   6

   Same-sex marriage is a civil right. The NAACP (National Association for
   the Advancement of Colored People), on May 21, 2012, named same-sex
   marriage... Read More
   Pro
   6

Same-sex marriage is a civil right.

   The NAACP (National Association for the Advancement of Colored People),
   on May 21, 2012, named same-sex marriage as "one of the key civil
   rights struggles of our time." [61] In 1967 the US Supreme Court
   unanimously confirmed in Loving v. Virginia that marriage is "one of
   the basic civil rights of man." [60] The White House website lists
   same-sex marriage amongst a selection of civil rights, along with
   freedom from employment discrimination, equal pay for women, and fair
   sentencing for minority criminals. [118]
   Pro
   7

   Marriage is not only for procreation, otherwise infertile couples or
   couples not wishing to have children would be prevented from marrying.
   Ability... Read More
   Pro
   7

Marriage is not only for procreation, otherwise infertile couples or couples
not wishing to have children would be prevented from marrying.

   Ability or desire to create offspring has never been a qualification
   for marriage. From 1970 through 2012 roughly 30% of all US households
   were married couples without children, and in 2012, married couples
   without children outnumbered married couples with children by 9%. [96]
   6% of married women aged 15-44 are infertile, according to the US
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. [97] In a 2010 Pew Research
   Center survey, both married and unmarried people rated love,
   commitment, and companionship higher than having children as "very
   important" reasons to get married, and only 44% of unmarried people and
   59% of married people rated having children as a very important reason.
   [42] Several US presidents never had their own biological children,
   including George Washington, often referred to as "the Father of Our
   Country." [9] [12] As US Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan noted, a
   marriage license would be granted to a couple in which the man and
   woman are both over the age of 55, even though "there are not a lot of
   children coming out of that marriage." [88]
   Pro
   8

   Gay marriages can bring financial gain to federal, state, and local
   governments and can help boost the economy. Government revenue from
   marriage... Read More
   Pro
   8

Gay marriages can bring financial gain to federal, state, and local
governments and can help boost the economy.

   Government revenue from marriage comes from marriage licenses, higher
   income taxes in some circumstances (the so-called "marriage penalty"),
   and decreases in costs for state benefit programs. [4] In July 2012 New
   York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg announced that gay marriage had
   contributed $259 million to the city's economy since the practice
   became legal there in July 2011. [43] In 2012, the Williams Institute
   at the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) found that in the
   first five years after Massachusetts legalized gay marriage in 2004,
   same-sex wedding expenditures (such as venue rental, wedding cakes,
   etc.) added $111 million to the state's economy. [114] A 2014 series of
   reports also by the Williams Institute estimated that legalizing
   same-sex marriage would boost the economies of the 11 US states studied
   by a total of $723 million over three years. [87] The Congressional
   Budget Office estimated in 2004 that federally-recognized gay marriage
   would cut the budget deficit by around $450 million a year. [89]
   Pro
   9

   Gay couples make good parents. A June 2014 peer-reviewed University of
   Melbourne study showed that children raised by same-sex parents score
   about... Read More
   Pro
   9

Gay couples make good parents.

   A June 2014 peer-reviewed University of Melbourne study showed that
   children raised by same-sex parents score about six percent higher than
   the general population on measures of general health and family
   cohesion. [92] A study published in Pediatrics on June 7, 2010 found
   that children of lesbian mothers were rated higher than children of
   heterosexual parents in social and academic competence and had fewer
   social problems. [45] A July 2010 study found that children of gay
   fathers were "as well-adjusted as those adopted by heterosexual
   parents." [46] As former Washington Post columnist Ezra Klein wrote,
   "We should be begging gay couples to adopt children. We should see this
   as a great boon that gay marriage could bring to kids who need nothing
   more than two loving parents." [68] In the United States, around
   115,000 children are waiting to be adopted. [44]
   Pro
   10

   Gay marriage bans cause humiliation and uncertainty for children being
   raised by same-sex couples. In ruling Texas' gay marriage ban
   unconstitutional... Read More
   Pro
   10

Gay marriage bans cause humiliation and uncertainty for children being raised
by same-sex couples.

   In ruling Texas' gay marriage ban unconstitutional, San Antonio-based
   federal judge Orlando Garcia stated that the ban "causes needless
   stigmatization and humiliation for children being raised by the loving
   same-sex couples being targeted." [138] Children of unmarried same-sex
   couples are denied the stability that comes with having married
   parents, including the guarantee of child support in the case of
   divorce and an automatic legal connection to both parents. [107] If no
   legal relationship is established, the child cannot be sure of
   receiving financial support from the non-biologically related partner,
   and is not guaranteed an inheritance if that partner dies without
   leaving a will. [151]
   Pro
   11

   Marriage provides both physical and psychological health benefits, and
   banning gay marriage increases rates of psychological disorders. The…
   Read More
   Pro
   11

Marriage provides both physical and psychological health benefits, and
banning gay marriage increases rates of psychological disorders.

   [5] The American Psychological Association, American Psychiatric
   Association, and others wrote in a Sep. 2007 amicus brief, "...allowing
   same-sex couples to marry would give them access to the social support
   that already facilitates and strengthens heterosexual marriages, with
   all of the psychological and physical health benefits associated with
   that support." [47] A 2012 study by researchers from UCLA, San
   Francisco State University, and the University of Massachusetts at
   Amherst found that same-sex married couples were "significantly less
   distressed than lesbian, gay, and bisexual persons not in a legally
   recognized relationship." [113] A 2010 analysis published in the
   American Journal of Public Health found that after their states had
   banned gay marriage, gay, lesbian and bisexual people suffered a 37%
   increase in mood disorders, a 42% increase in alcohol-use disorders,
   and a 248% increase in generalized anxiety disorders. [69]
   Pro
   12

   Legalizing gay marriage will not harm the institution of marriage, and
   same-sex marriages may even be more stable than heterosexual marriages.
   A study... Read More
   Pro
   12

Legalizing gay marriage will not harm the institution of marriage, and
same-sex marriages may even be more stable than heterosexual marriages.

   A study published on Apr. 13, 2009 in Social Science Quarterly found
   that "[l]aws permitting same-sex marriage or civil unions have no
   adverse effect on marriage, divorce, and abortion rates, [or] the
   percent of children born out of wedlock." [48] A Nov. 2011 study by
   UCLA's Williams Institute reported that the rate at which legally
   recognized same-sex couples (in marriages or civil unions, etc.) end
   their relationships is 1.1% on average, while 2% of married
   different-sex couples divorce annually. [115] The Executive Board of
   the American Anthropological Association found that more than a century
   of research has shown "no support whatsoever for the view that either
   civilization or viable social orders depend upon marriage as an
   exclusively heterosexual institution. Rather, anthropological research
   supports the conclusion that a vast array of family types, including
   families built upon same-sex partnerships, can contribute to stable and
   humane societies." [8]
   Pro
   13

   Gay marriage legalization is correlated with lower divorce rates, while
   gay marriage bans are correlated with higher divorce rates.
   Massachusetts… Read More
   Pro
   13

Gay marriage legalization is correlated with lower divorce rates, while gay
marriage bans are correlated with higher divorce rates.

   Massachusetts, which became the first US state to legalize gay marriage
   in 2004, had the lowest divorce rate in the country in 2008. Its
   divorce rate declined 21% between 2003 and 2008. Alaska, which altered
   its constitution to prohibit gay marriage in 1998, saw a 17.2% increase
   in its divorce rate over the same period. The seven states with the
   highest divorce rates between 2003 and 2008 all had constitutional
   prohibitions to gay marriage. [2]
   Pro
   14

   Legal marriage is a secular institution that should not be limited by
   religious objections to same-sex marriage. Religious institutions can
   decline... Read More
   Pro
   14

Legal marriage is a secular institution that should not be limited by
religious objections to same-sex marriage.

   Religious institutions can decline to marry gay and lesbian couples if
   they wish, but they should not dictate marriage laws for society at
   large. As explained by People for the American Way, "As a legal matter,
   marriage is a civil institution... Marriage is also a religious
   institution, defined differently by different faiths and congregations.
   In America, the distinction can get blurry because states permit clergy
   to carry out both religious and civil marriage in a single ceremony.
   Religious Right leaders have exploited that confusion by claiming that
   granting same-sex couples equal access to civil marriage would somehow
   also redefine the religious institution of marriage... this is grounded
   in falsehood and deception." [132] Nancy Cott, PhD, testified in Perry
   v. Schwarzenegger that "[c]ivil law has always been supreme in defining
   and regulating marriage." [41]
   Pro
   15

   Many religious leaders and churches support gay marriage and say it is
   consistent with scripture. Gene Robinson, openly gay former Bishop of
   the... Read More
   Pro
   15

Many religious leaders and churches support gay marriage and say it is
consistent with scripture.

   Gene Robinson, openly gay former Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of New
   Hampshire, stated in Sep. 2012: "Scripture says where love is, there is
   God also. And they [religious people] see that love in our families,
   and I think people can't help but be supportive." [128] Lee Jefferson,
   Assistant Professor of Religion at Centre College, wrote that the Bible
   makes no mention of same-sex marriage at all, nor does it make
   reference to sexual orientation as it is understood today. [129] Reform
   Judaism, which comprises about 80% of the American Jewish population,
   endorses same-sex marriage, and the Central Conference of American
   Rabbis has supported gay marriage since 1996. [130] The Episcopal
   Church stated in Resolution A095, made in 2006, that it "oppose[s] any
   state or federal constitutional amendment that prohibits same-sex civil
   marriage or civil unions." The Presbyterian Church (USA) voted in June
   2014 to allow its pastors to marry same-sex couples. The United Church
   of Christ General Synod voted in July 2005 to affirm "equal marriage
   rights for couples regardless of gender." The 1996 General Assembly of
   the Unitarian Universalist Association adopted "a position in support
   of legal recognition for marriage between members of the same sex."
   [119] [141][142] [143]
   Con
   1

   The institution of marriage has traditionally been defined as being
   between a man and a woman. In upholding gay marriage bans in Kentucky,
   Michigan... Read More
   Con
   1

The institution of marriage has traditionally been defined as being between a
man and a woman.

   In upholding gay marriage bans in Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio and
   Tennessee on Nov. 6, 2014, 6th US District Court of Appeals Judge
   Jeffrey S. Sutton wrote that "marriage has long been a social
   institution defined by relationships between men and women. So long
   defined, the tradition is measured in millennia, not centuries or
   decades. So widely shared, the tradition until recently had been
   adopted by all governments and major religions of the world." [117] In
   the Oct. 15, 1971 decision Baker v. Nelson, the Supreme Court of
   Minnesota found that "the institution of marriage as a union of man and
   woman, uniquely involving the procreation and rearing of children
   within a family, is as old as the book of Genesis." [49] John F.
   Harvey, MA, STL, late Catholic priest, wrote in July 2009 that
   "Throughout the history of the human race the institution of marriage
   has been understood as the complete spiritual and bodily communion of
   one man and one woman." [18] [109]
   Con
   2

   Marriage is for procreation and should not be extended to same-sex
   couples because they cannot produce children together. Allowing gay
   marriage would... Read More
   Con
   2

Marriage is for procreation and should not be extended to same-sex couples
because they cannot produce children together.

   Allowing gay marriage would only further shift the purpose of marriage
   from producing and raising children to adult gratification. [19] A
   California Supreme Court ruling from 1859 stated that "the first
   purpose of matrimony, by the laws of nature and society, is
   procreation." [90] Nobel Prize-winning philosopher Bertrand Russell
   stated that "it is through children alone that sexual relations become
   important to society, and worthy to be taken cognizance of by a legal
   institution." [91] Court papers filed in July 2014 by attorneys
   defending Arizona's gay marriage ban stated that "the State regulates
   marriage for the primary purpose of channeling potentially procreative
   sexual relationships into enduring unions for the sake of joining
   children to both their mother and their father... Same-sex couples can
   never provide a child with both her biological mother and her
   biological father." Contrary to the pro gay marriage argument that some
   different-sex couples cannot have children or don't want them, even in
   those cases there is still the potential to produce children. Seemingly
   infertile heterosexual couples sometimes produce children, and medical
   advances may allow others to procreate in the future. Heterosexual
   couples who do not wish to have children are still biologically capable
   of having them, and may change their minds. [98]
   Con
   3

   Children need both a mother and a father. Girls who are raised apart
   from their fathers are reportedly at higher risk for early sexual
   activity and... Read More
   Con
   3

Children need both a mother and a father.

   Girls who are raised apart from their fathers are reportedly at higher
   risk for early sexual activity and teenage pregnancy. [52] Children
   without a mother are deprived of the emotional security and unique
   advice that mothers provide. A 2012 study by Mark Regnerus, PhD,
   Associate Professor of Sociology at the University of Texas at Austin,
   found that children raised by parents who had same-sex relationships
   suffered more difficulties in life (including sexual abuse and
   unemployment in later life) than children raised by "intact biological
   famil[ies]." [133] Doug Mainwaring, the openly gay co-founder of
   National Capital Tea Party Patriots, stated that "it became
   increasingly apparent to me, even if I found somebody else exactly like
   me, who loved my kids as much as I do, there would still be a gaping
   hole in their lives because they need a mom... I don't want to see
   children being engineered for same-sex couples where there is either a
   mom missing or a dad missing." [53]
   Con
   4

   Legalizing gay marriage could lead down a "slippery slope," giving
   people in polygamous, incestuous, bestial, and other nontraditional…
   Read More
   Con
   4

Legalizing gay marriage could lead down a "slippery slope," giving people in
polygamous, incestuous, bestial, and other nontraditional relationships the
right to marry.

   [10] Glen Lavy, JD, senior counsel with the Alliance Defense Fund,
   argued in a May 21, 2008 Los Angeles Times op-ed, "The movement for
   polygamy and polyamory is poised to use the successes of same-sex
   couples as a springboard for further de-institutionalizing marriage."
   [11] In Apr. 2013 Slate writer Jillian Keenan wrote: "Just like
   heterosexual marriage is no better or worse than homosexual marriage,
   marriage between two consenting adults is not inherently more or less
   'correct' than marriage among three (or four, or six) consenting
   adults." [71] James C. Dobson, Founder and Chairman of Focus on the
   Family, predicted in 2005 that legalizing same-sex marriage will enable
   "group marriage," "marriage between daddies and little girls," and
   "marriage between a man and his donkey." [136]
   Con
   5

   Allowing gay couples to wed could further weaken the institution of
   marriage. Traditional marriage is already threatened with high divorce
   rates... Read More
   Con
   5

Allowing gay couples to wed could further weaken the institution of marriage.

   Traditional marriage is already threatened with high divorce rates
   (between 40% and 50%), and 40.7% of babies were born to unmarried
   mothers in 2012. [50] [51] [116] Former US Senator (R-PA) and
   presidential candidate Rick Santorum stated that "Legalization of gay
   marriage would further undermine an institution that is essential to
   the well-being of children and our society. Do we need to confuse
   future generations of Americans even more about the role and importance
   of an institution that is so critical to the stability of our country?"
   [137] Ryan T. Anderson, William E. Simon Fellow in Religion and a Free
   Society at The Heritage Foundation, said "In recent decades, marriage
   has been weakened by a revisionist view that is more about adults’
   desires than children’s needs... Redefining marriage to include
   same-sex relationships is the culmination of this revisionism, and it
   would leave emotional intensity as the only thing that sets marriage
   apart from other bonds." [70]
   Con
   6

   Homosexuality is immoral and unnatural. J. Matt Barber, Associate Dean
   for Online Programs at Liberty University School of Law, stated that
   "Every… Read More
   Con
   6

Homosexuality is immoral and unnatural.

   J. Matt Barber, Associate Dean for Online Programs at Liberty
   University School of Law, stated that "Every individual engaged in the
   homosexual lifestyle, who has adopted a homosexual identity, they know,
   intuitively, that what they're doing is immoral, unnatural, and
   self-destructive, yet they thirst for that affirmation." A 2003 set of
   guidelines signed by Pope John Paul II stated: "There are absolutely no
   grounds for considering homosexual unions to be in any way similar or
   even remotely analogous to God's plan for marriage and family...
   Marriage is holy, while homosexual acts go against the natural moral
   law." [147] Former Arkansas governor and Republican presidential
   candidate Mike Huckabee stated in Oct. 2014 that gay marriage is
   "inconsistent with nature and nature’s law." [148]
   Con
   7

   Gay marriage is contrary to the word of God and is incompatible with
   the beliefs, sacred texts, and traditions of many religious groups. The
   Bible, in… Read More
   Con
   7

Gay marriage is contrary to the word of God and is incompatible with the
beliefs, sacred texts, and traditions of many religious groups.

   The Bible, in Leviticus 18:22, states: "Thou shalt not lie with
   mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination," thus condemning
   homosexual relationships. [120] In Islamic tradition, several hadiths
   (passages attributed to the Prophet Muhammad) condemn gay and lesbian
   relationships, including the sayings "When a man mounts another man,
   the throne of God shakes," and "Sihaq [lesbian sex] of women is zina
   [illegitimate sexual intercourse]." [121] The Catholic Church, United
   Methodist Church, Southern Baptist Convention, Church of Jesus Christ
   of Latter-day Saints, National Association of Evangelicals, and
   American Baptist Churches USA all oppose same-sex marriage. [119] Two
   orthodox Jewish groups, the Orthodox Agudath Israel of America and the
   Orthodox Union, also oppose gay marriage, as does mainstream Islam.
   [13] [119] According to a July 31, 2003 statement from the Congregation
   for the Doctrine of the Faith and approved by Pope John Paul II,
   marriage "was established by the Creator with its own nature, essential
   properties and purpose. No ideology can erase from the human spirit the
   certainty that marriage exists solely between a man and a woman…" [54]
   Pope Benedict stated in Jan. 2012 that gay marriage threatened "the
   future of humanity itself." [145]
   Con
   8

   Legalizing gay marriage often leads to an end to domestic partnership
   benefits for gay and straight couples, which disadvantages couples who
   choose... Read More
   Con
   8

Legalizing gay marriage often leads to an end to domestic partnership
benefits for gay and straight couples, which disadvantages couples who choose
not to get married.

   Maryland ended health insurance benefits for new domestic partnerships
   after same-sex marriage became legal in the state in 2013. [124] [135]
   The state of Washington automatically converted domestic partnerships
   to marriages when they legalized gay marriage in 2012, providing no
   option to retain domestic partnerships or civil unions unless one
   partner is at least 62 years old. [134] [123] The US Defense Department
   announced in Aug. 2013 that it would grant health insurance and other
   benefits to same-sex married partners of US troops, but that domestic
   partners would no longer be granted the same benefits. [125] The
   Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the US Department of Labor
   recognized same-sex married couples for the purpose of granting tax,
   retirement, and health insurance benefits after the US Supreme Court
   declared part of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) unconstitutional in
   2013, but they did not include domestic partnerships or civil unions.
   [126]
   Con
   9

   Gay marriage will accelerate the assimilation of gays into mainstream
   heterosexual culture to the detriment of the homosexual community. The
   gay... Read More
   Con
   9

Gay marriage will accelerate the assimilation of gays into mainstream
heterosexual culture to the detriment of the homosexual community.

   The gay community has created its own vibrant culture. By reducing the
   differences in opportunities and experiences between gay and
   heterosexual people, this unique culture may cease to exist. Lesbian
   activist M.V. Lee Badgett, PhD, Director of the Center for Public
   Policy and Administration at the University of Massachusetts at
   Amherst, stated that for many gay activists "marriage means adopting
   heterosexual forms of family and giving up distinctively gay family
   forms and perhaps even gay and lesbian culture." [14] Paula Ettelbrick,
   JD, Professor of Law and Women's Studies, wrote in 1989, "Marriage runs
   contrary to two of the primary goals of the lesbian and gay movement:
   the affirmation of gay identity and culture and the validation of many
   forms of relationships." [15]
   Con
   10

   Marriage is an outmoded, oppressive institution that should be
   weakened, not expanded. LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender)
   activist... Read More
   Con
   10

Marriage is an outmoded, oppressive institution that should be weakened, not
expanded.

   LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender) activist collective
   Against Equality states that "Gay marriage apes hetero privilege...
   [and] increases economic inequality by perpetuating a system which
   deems married beings more worthy of the basics like health care and
   economic rights." [84] The leaders of the Gay Liberation Front in New
   York said in July 1969, "We expose the institution of marriage as one
   of the most insidious and basic sustainers of the system. The family is
   the microcosm of oppression." [16] Self-described queer activist Anders
   Zanichkowsky stated in June 2013 that the campaign for gay marriage
   "intentionally and maliciously erases and excludes so many queer people
   and cultures, particularly trans and gender non-conforming people, poor
   queer people, and queer people in non-traditional families... marriage
   thinks non-married people are deviant and not truly deserving of civil
   rights." [127]
   Con
   11

   People should not have their tax dollars used to support something they
   believe is wrong. Peter S. Sprigg, MDiv, Senior Fellow for Policy
   Studies… Read More
   Con
   11

People should not have their tax dollars used to support something they
believe is wrong.

   Peter S. Sprigg, MDiv, Senior Fellow for Policy Studies at the Family
   Research Council, said that if gay marriage were legalized,
   "[t]axpayers, consumers, and businesses would be forced to subsidize
   homosexual relationships... One of the key arguments often heard in
   support of homosexual civil marriage revolves around all the government
   'benefits' that homosexuals claim they are denied. Many of these
   'benefits' involve one thing–taxpayer money that homosexuals are eager
   to get their hands on." [146] Gay marriage would entitle gay couples to
   typical marriage benefits including claiming a tax exemption for a
   spouse, receiving social security payments from a deceased spouse, and
   coverage by a spouse’s health insurance policy, largely at taxpayers'
   expense. On Dec. 17, 2009 the Congressional Budget Office estimated
   that the cost to the federal government of extending employment
   benefits to same-sex domestic partners of certain federal employees
   (making no mention of additional costs such as Social Security and
   inheritance taxes) would be $596 million in mandatory spending and $302
   million in discretionary spending between 2010 and 2019. [37]
   Con
   12

   Marriage is a privilege, not a right. The US Constitution contains no
   explicit right to marry. The European Court of Human Rights ruled on
   June 24… Read More
   Con
   12

Marriage is a privilege, not a right.

   The US Constitution contains no explicit right to marry. [99] The
   European Court of Human Rights ruled on June 24, 2010 that the state
   has a valid interest in protecting the traditional definition of
   marriage, and stated that the Convention for the Protection of Human
   Rights and Fundamental Freedoms "enshrined the traditional concept of
   marriage as being between a man and a woman." [101] [102] Society can
   choose not to allow same-sex couples to marry, just as it does not
   allow a person to marry more than one partner or allow minors or close
   relatives to marry. [100] Matthew D. Staver, JD, Dean of the Liberty
   University School of Law, explained: "The unifying characteristics of
   the protected classes within the Civil Rights Act of 1964 include (1) a
   history of longstanding, widespread discrimination, (2) economic
   disadvantage, and (3) immutable characteristics... 'Sexual orientation'
   does not meet any of the three objective criteria shared by the
   historically protected civil rights categories." [62]
   Con
   13

   Legalizing gay marriage advances the "homosexual agenda" and unfairly
   paints opponents as bigots. The Illinois Family Institute states that
   if gay… Read More
   Con
   13

Legalizing gay marriage advances the "homosexual agenda" and unfairly paints
opponents as bigots.

   The Illinois Family Institute states that if gay marriage is legalized,
   "Children will be taught that homosexuality is morally equivalent to
   heterosexuality... that children do not have any inherent rights to
   know and be raised by a mother and a father... [and] that opposition to
   the legalization of 'same-sex marriage' was equivalent to opposition to
   the legalization of interracial marriage. They will be taught that
   opposition to both was motivated by ignorance and hatred." [85] Lou
   Sheldon, Founder of the Traditional Values Coalition, warned of the
   influence on children of the "homosexual agenda," writing that "[o]ur
   little children are being targeted by the homosexuals and liberals...
   To be brainwashed to think that homosexuality is the moral equivalent
   of heterosexuality. We can't let that happen." [150]
   Con
   14

   Civil unions and domestic partnerships can provide the protections and
   benefits gay couples need without changing the definition of marriage…
   Read More
   Con
   14

Civil unions and domestic partnerships can provide the protections and
benefits gay couples need without changing the definition of marriage.

   Privileges available to couples in civil unions and domestic
   partnerships can include health insurance benefits, inheritance without
   a will, the ability to file state taxes jointly, and hospital
   visitation rights. [155] [156] 2016 presidential candidate and former
   Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina stated that civil unions are adequate
   as an equivalent to marriage for same-sex couples: "Benefits are being
   bestowed to gay couples [in civil unions]... I believe we need to
   respect those who believe that the word marriage has a spiritual
   foundation... Why can't we respect and tolerate that while at the same
   time saying government cannot bestow benefits unequally." [157] 43rd US
   President George W. Bush expressed his support for same-sex civil
   unions while in office: "I don't think we should deny people rights to
   a civil union, a legal arrangement, if that's what a state chooses to
   do so... I strongly believe that marriage ought to be defined as
   between a union between a man and a woman. Now, having said that,
   states ought to be able to have the right to pass laws that enable
   people to be able to have rights like others." [158]

                                Did You Know?
    1. On May 17, 2004, the first legal gay marriage in the United States
       was performed in Cambridge, MA between Tanya McCloskey, a massage
       therapist, and Marcia Kadish, an employment manager at an
       engineering firm. [26]
    2. The world's first legal gay marriage ceremony took place in the
       Netherlands on Apr. 1, 2001, just after midnight. The four couples,
       one female and three male, were married in a televised ceremony
       officiated by the mayor of Amsterdam. [152]
    3. The Congressional Budget Office estimated on Dec. 17, 2009 that
       extending employment benefits to same-sex domestic partners of
       federal employees would cost the federal government $596 million in
       mandatory spending and $302 million in discretionary spending
       between 2010 and 2019. [37]
    4. An Oct. 2, 2009 analysis by the New York Times estimated that
       same-sex couples denied marriage benefits will incur an additional
       $41,196 to $467,562 in expenses over their lifetimes compared with
       married heterosexual couples. [7]
    5. The Catholic Church, United Methodist Church, Southern Baptist
       Convention, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, National
       Association of Evangelicals, and American Baptist Churches USA all
       oppose same-sex marriage. [119]


   People who view this page may also like:
    1. Gay Marriage in the US Supreme Court, 2015
    2. Are people born gay? Pros and cons in debate over origin of sexual
       orientation
    3. History of the Same-Sex Marriage Debate, 1970 - present

   Our Latest Updates (archived after 30 days) rss icon

   Researcher Wanted at Educational Nonprofit ProCon.org
   1/17/2019 - ProCon.org, a Los Angeles-based 501(c)(3) nonprofit public
   charity, seeks an in-house Researcher (full-time with benefits or
   part-time without benefits) to develop content for websites devoted to
   a nonpartisan in-depth presentation of 70+ controversial issues. Three
   items are required for application, as specified in the job notice.
   Archived Notices (archived after 30 days) Last updated on 11/26/2018
   9:57:51 AM PST

   Gay Marriage Homepage
   red book icon
   Background of the Issue
   blue debate icon
   Top Pro & Con Arguments
   green quotes
   Top Pro & Con Quotes
   RECOMMENDED to you...
   1
   Did You Know?
   2
   Readers' Comments
   3
   Video Gallery
   4
   Gay Marriage around the World
   5
   Gay Marriage Timeline
   6
   State-by-State History of Banning and Legalizing Gay Marriage,
   1994-2015
   7
   Gay Marriage in the US Supreme Court, 2015
   + DIG DEEPER...
   Source Biographies
   Footnotes & Sources
   Gay Marriage in the US Supreme Court, 2013
   Top "Gay-Friendly" and "Gay-Unfriendly" US Companies, 2011
   2012 Presidential Candidates' Positions on Gay Marriage
   US Gay Marriage Polls, 1988-2010
   2016 Presidential Candidates' Positions on Gay Marriage
   [cite-icon-right-menu.png]
   CITE THIS PAGE
   Who is the author?
   SHARE
     *
     *
     *
     *

   HOME
   CITE THIS PAGE
   REPRINTING POLICY
   PRIVACY POLICY
   DISCLAIMER
   READER FAVORITES
   State Laws
   Debate Topics
   Critical Thinking Quotes
   Teaching Controversial Issues
   History Of...
   [translate-icon-right-menu.png]
   TRANSLATE
   into 100+ Languages and Dialects
   LET'S GET SOCIAL!
   Tweets by @procon_org
   BECOME A MEMBER
   ProCon.org is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit
   public charity supported by your donations.
   233 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 200
   Santa Monica, CA 90401
   310-451-9596
   [email protected]
   © 2018 ProCon.org
   All rights reserved

   Quantcast
