   [tr?id=337855236975329&ev=PageView&noscript=1]

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TB87QF

   Your independent source for Harvard news since 1898
   Harvard Magazine

   Log-In | Register

Search form

   Search ____________________
   [glass.png]-Submit
     * Articles
       pointer close
          + News
            more News

     Image from Google Maps

What’s Up Comes Down, and Vice Versa
            Massachusetts transportation officials plan to rebuild
            Turnpike at grade—opening Harvard parcels.
            1.14.19

     Are data from massive open online courses a crystal ball into the
     future of online education?
     Data from Science Magazine/Chart by Lydia S.C. Rosenberg

Can MOOCs Predict the Future of Online Education?
            Harvard and MIT experiences suggest a more constrained vision
            for massive free courses.
            1.10.19
            Statue of John Harvard

     Statue of John Harvard
     Photograph by Ericodeg/Flickr.com

College Admits 13.4 Percent of Early-Action Applicants
            More women in science, and a steady increase in Asian-American
            admits
            12.13.18
          + Research
            more Research

     Are data from massive open online courses a crystal ball into the
     future of online education?
     Data from Science Magazine/Chart by Lydia S.C. Rosenberg

Can MOOCs Predict the Future of Online Education?
            Harvard and MIT experiences suggest a more constrained vision
            for massive free courses.
            1.10.19

     Lapis lazuli pigment entrapped within the dental calculus on the
     lower jaw of a medieval woman.
     Photograph by Christina Warinner

Manuscripts Illuminated…by Women
            Tracing lapis lazuli provides evidence that women were
            directly involved in creating medieval illuminated
            manuscripts.
            1.9.19

     A formal wartime portrait
     Photograph from the Mathew Brady Collection/Library of Congres

Ulysses S. Grant
            Brief history of the image of a hero: 1822-1885
            January-February 2019
          + Students
            more Students

     Are data from massive open online courses a crystal ball into the
     future of online education?
     Data from Science Magazine/Chart by Lydia S.C. Rosenberg

Can MOOCs Predict the Future of Online Education?
            Harvard and MIT experiences suggest a more constrained vision
            for massive free courses.
            1.10.19

     Illustration by Michael Parkin/Folio Art

Who Belongs at Harvard?
            The Undergraduate considers the composition of Harvard
            College.
            January-February 2019

     Photograph by River North Photography/iStock

Harvard-Yale at IHOP
            “None of my friends are going to The Game, which is evidenced
            by the fact that we’re at IHOP deliberating whether our crêpes
            should come with lingonberry, and not on a shuttle into
            Boston.”
            11.21.18
          + Alumni
            more Alumni

     After the harvest, Kelby Russell, who makes cold-climate white
     wines, stands in a vineyard overlooking New York’s Seneca Lake.
     Photograph by Robyn Wishna

Grace Notes
            Why the vineyards of New York called Kelby Russell home
            January-February 2019

     Liz Glynn
     Photograph by Evelena Ruether/Liz Glynn Studio

Artistic Capital
            In Liz Glynn’s massive installations, big questions about the
            meaning of value
            January-February 2019

     Bess Wohl
     Photograph by Astrid Stawiarz/Getty Images

“Here and Then Gone”
            Bess Wohl writes plays from an actor’s perspective.
            January-February 2019
          + Harvard Squared
            more Harvard Squared

     Public domain

The Perfect Storm
            Why Resolutions Work Best in Winter
            January-February 2019

     A miniature version of a New England high-post bed (ca. 1750-1765),
     with historically accurate bed furnishings by Natalie Larson
     Object on loan courtesy of Natalie and Bruce Larson
     Photograph courtesy of the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art

Bedding Down in Early America
            A Wadsworth Atheneum and Museum exhibit reveals how we once
            slept.
            January-February 2019

     A serene and snowy moment in historic Portland
     Photograph courtesy of Corey Templeton Photography

“Beyond Lobsters and Lighthouses”
            Enjoying Portland, Maine, in the “off-season”
            January-February 2019
          + Opinion
            more Opinion

     A formal wartime portrait
     Photograph from the Mathew Brady Collection/Library of Congres

Ulysses S. Grant
            Brief history of the image of a hero: 1822-1885
            January-February 2019

What Legacy?
            Affirmative action, donor and staff preferences, and other
            Harvard College admissions challenges
            January-February 2019

     Illustration by Michael Parkin/Folio Art

Who Belongs at Harvard?
            The Undergraduate considers the composition of Harvard
            College.
            January-February 2019
          + Arts
            more Arts

     Lapis lazuli pigment entrapped within the dental calculus on the
     lower jaw of a medieval woman.
     Photograph by Christina Warinner

Manuscripts Illuminated…by Women
            Tracing lapis lazuli provides evidence that women were
            directly involved in creating medieval illuminated
            manuscripts.
            1.9.19

     Photograph from the OxBlue Construction Cameras

Arts Arrive in Allston
            Alongside a huge applied-sciences center, a toehold for
            art-making
            January-February 2019

     Philip J. Deloria
     Photograph by Jim Harrison

Native Modern
            Philip Deloria studies American Indians and the contradictions
            that made America.
            January-February 2019
          + Sports
            more Sports

     Tubing at Nashoba Valley Ski Area
     Photograph courtesy of Nashoba Valley Ski Area

Sliding Down the Slopes
            Best snow-tubing spots around Greater Boston
            January-February 2019

     Cook’s tour: Harvard wideout Jack Cook leaves Yale’s Deonte Henson
     in the dust on a third-quarter, 15-yard touchdown. The score gave
     the Crimson a 28-24 lead, which it would not surrender.
     Photograph by Tim O’Meara/The Harvard Crimson

Finishing with a Flourish
            A resilient, crowd-pleasing football season, with talented
            sophomores surfacing
            January-February 2019

     Cook’s tour: Harvard wideout Jack Cook leaves Yale’s Deonte Henson
     in the dust on a third-quarter, 15-yard touchdown. The score gave
     the Crimson a 28-24 lead, which it would not surrender.
     Photograph by Tim O’Meara/The Harvard Crimson

Football 2018: Harvard 45, Yale 27
            On the fiftieth anniversary of That Game, Harvard really does
            beat Yale.
            11.16.18
          + Harvardiana
            more Harvardiana

     Illustration by Mark Steele

Yesterday’s News
            When the Law School made thin ice…and other headlines from
            Harvard’s history
            January-February 2019

     Photograph by Harvard Magazine/JC

Sculpting Hallowed Ground
            Re-landscaping Massachusetts Hall, making the entrance to
            Harvard Yard more welcoming
            January-February 2019

     Quarterback Frank Champi ’70 is carried off the field as the Yale
     game ends.
     Photograph by Gary Mottola

From the Archives: 1968, When “Harvard Beats Yale”
            The immediate post-Game coverage, and an update on that famous
            headline
            11.15.18
          + Puzzles

A Harvard Magazine Tradition Ends
            1.12.17

Cryptic Puzzle: “Regatta”
            8.17.16

Cryptic Puzzle: “Soccer Club”
            6.14.16

Cryptic Puzzle: “Gift”
            4.18.16

Cryptic Puzzle: “Diversifying”
            2.17.16

Cryptic Puzzle: “Coach”
            12.14.15
            puzzles

Harvard Puzzles by John de Cuevas
            more Puzzles
     * Current Issue
       pointer close
       Read the current issue
       January-February 2019

     Philip J. Deloria
     Photograph by Jim Harrison

Native Modern
       Philip J. Deloria studies American Indians and the contradictions
       that made America.
     * Archives
       pointer close
       From the archives

     Illustration by Davide Bonazzi

The Watchers
       Assaults on privacy and security in America threaten democracy
       itself.
       January-February 2017
       November-December 2018
       September-October 2018
       July-August 2018
       more Back Issues
     * Class Notes
       pointer close
       To access Class Notes or Obituaries, please log in using your
       Harvard Magazine account and verify your alumni status.
       Don't have a Harvard Magazine account? Register Here
       Or submit a class note or obituary
     * Classifieds
       pointer close
       vacation rentals
       Vacation Rentals & Travel
       real estate
       Real Estate
       personals
       Personals
       products and services
       Products & Services
       Place an Ad

Special Sections
          + Summer Education & Enrichment
          + Spotlight on France
         ______________________________________________________________

          + FAQ
          + Tips & Advice
          + Pricing & Sizes
     * Donate
       pointer close

Show your Support for
Harvard Magazine
       Your donation today ensures that Harvard Magazine can continue to
       provide high-quality content and remain an editorially independent
       source of news about the Harvard community.
       Why Support Harvard Magazine? | Financial Update | Donor Services
       Donate

   Harvard Magazine
   (Submit) toggle menu
     * Latest News
     * Current Issue
     * Back Issues
     * Harvard Squared
     * Class Notes
     * Classifieds
     * Donate

Search form

   Search ____________________
   [glass.png]-Submit

   Your independent source for Harvard news since 1898
   [ADTECH;loc=300;key=key1+key2+key3+Research]
   [ADTECH;loc=300;key=key1+key2+key3+key4]

   Features

How Same-Sex Marriage Came to Be

   On activism, litigation, and social change in America

   by Michael J. Klarman

   March-April 2013
   [share_Print.png] [share_PDF.png]

   Fifty years ago, every state criminalized homosexual sex, and even the
   American Civil Liberties Union did not object. The federal government
   would not hire people who were openly gay or permit them to serve in
   the military. Police routinely raided gay bars. Only a handful of
   gay-rights organizations existed, and their membership was sparse. Most
   Americans would have considered the idea of same-sex marriage
   facetious.

   Today, opinion polls consistently show a majority of Americans
   endorsing such marriages; among those aged 18 to 29, support is as high
   as 70 percent. President Barack Obama has embraced marriage equality.
   Last November, for the first time, a majority of voters in a state—in
   fact, in three states—approved same-sex marriage, and in a fourth, they
   rejected a proposed state constitutional amendment to forbid it.

   How did support for gay marriage grow so quickly—to the point where the
   Supreme Court may deem it a constitutional right in 2013?

The Pre-Marriage Era

   In the early 1970s, amid a burst of gay activism unleashed by the
   Stonewall riots in Greenwich Village, several same-sex couples filed
   lawsuits demanding marriage licenses. Courts did not take their
   arguments very seriously. A trial judge in Kentucky instructed one
   lesbian plaintiff that she would not be permitted into the courtroom
   unless she exchanged her pantsuit for a dress. Minnesota Supreme Court
   justices would not dignify the gay-marriage claim by asking even a
   single question at oral argument.

   Marriage equality was not then a priority of gay activists. Rather,
   they focused on decriminalizing consensual sex between same-sex
   partners, securing legislation forbidding discrimination based on
   sexual orientation in public accommodations and employment, and
   electing the nation’s first openly gay public officials. Indeed, most
   gays and lesbians at the time were deeply ambivalent about marriage.
   Lesbian feminists tended to regard the institution as oppressive, given
   the traditional rules that defined it, such as coverture and immunity
   from rape. Most sex radicals objected to traditional marriage’s
   insistence on monogamy; for them, gay liberation meant sexual
   liberation.

   Only in the late 1980s did activists begin to pursue legal recognition
   of their relationships—and even gay marriage. The AIDS epidemic had
   highlighted the vulnerability of gay and lesbian partnerships: nearly
   50,000 people had died of AIDS, two-thirds of them gay men; the median
   age of the deceased was 36. An entire generation of young gay men was
   forced to contemplate legal issues surrounding their relationships:
   hospital visitation, surrogate medical decisionmaking, and property
   inheritance. In addition, the many gay and lesbian baby boomers who
   were becoming parents sought legal recognition of their families.

   Still, as late as 1990, roughly 75 percent of Americans deemed
   homosexual sex immoral, only 29 percent supported gay adoptions, and
   only 10 percent to 20 percent backed same-sex marriage. Not a single
   jurisdiction in the world had yet embraced marriage equality.

Litigation and Backlash

   In 1991, three gay couples in Hawaii challenged the constitutionality
   of laws limiting marriage to a man and woman. No national gay-rights
   organization would support litigation considered hopeless—but in 1993,
   the state supreme court unexpectedly ruled that excluding same-sex
   couples from marriage was presumptively unconstitutional. The case was
   remanded for a trial, at which the government had the opportunity to
   show a compelling justification for banning gay marriage. In 1996, a
   trial judge ruled that same-sex couples were entitled to marry. But
   even in a relatively gay-friendly state, marriage equality was then a
   radical concept: in 1998, Hawaiian voters rejected it, 69 percent to 31
   percent. (A similar vote in Alaska that year produced a nearly
   identical outcome.)

   For the Republican Party in the 1990s, gay marriage was a dream issue
   that mobilized its religious-conservative base and put it on the same
   side as most swing voters. Objecting that “some radical judges in
   Hawaii may get to dictate the moral code for the entire nation,”
   Republicans in 1996 introduced bills in most state legislatures to deny
   recognition to gay marriages lawfully performed elsewhere. (Such
   marriages were nonexistent at the time.) One poll showed that 68
   percent of Americans opposed gay marriage. By 2001, 35 states had
   enacted statutes or constitutional provisions to “defend” traditional
   marriage—usually by overwhelming margins.

   Gay marriage also entered the national political arena in 1996. Just
   days before the Republican Party’s Iowa caucuses, antigay activists
   conducted a “marriage protection” rally at which presidential
   candidates denounced the “homosexual agenda,” which was said to be
   “destroying the integrity of the marriage-based family.” A few months
   later, the party’s nominee, Senator Robert Dole, co-sponsored the
   Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), which provided that no state was
   required to recognize another’s same-sex marriages and that the federal
   government would not recognize them for purposes of determining
   eligibility for federal benefits. Congress passed the bill by lopsided
   margins, and President Bill Clinton, eager to neutralize the issue,
   signed it.

   Vermont. The litigation victory in Hawaii inspired activists in Vermont
   to follow suit. In 1999, that state’s high court ruled that the
   traditional definition of marriage discriminated against same-sex
   couples. The court gave the legislature the option of amending the
   marriage law to include same-sex couples or of creating a new
   institution (which came to be called “civil unions”) that provided them
   with all of the benefits of marriage.

   At that time, no American state had enacted anything like civil unions.
   An enormous political controversy erupted; the legislature’s 2000
   session was dominated by the issue. After weeks of impassioned debate,
   lawmakers narrowly approved a civil-unions law, causing opponents to
   encourage voters to “keep your blood boiling” for the fall election and
   “Take Back Vermont.” Governor Howard Dean, a strong proponent of civil
   unions, faced his toughest reelection contest, and as many as three
   dozen state lawmakers may have lost their jobs over the issue (though
   the law survived Republican efforts to repeal it in the next
   legislative session).

   Developments in Vermont resonated nationally. All 10 candidates for the
   Republican presidential nomination in 2000 denounced civil unions. One
   of them, Gary Bauer, called the Vermont decision “in some ways worse
   than terrorism.”

   Massachusetts. Activists in Massachusetts, inspired by Vermont, filed
   their own lawsuit in 2001 demanding marriage equality. In 2003, the
   Supreme Judicial Court vindicated their claim in Goodridge v.
   Department of Public Health, while rejecting civil unions as
   “second-class citizenship.” Massachusetts thus became the first
   American state—and only the fifth jurisdiction in the world—to
   recognize same-sex marriage.

   The ruling sparked only a mild local backlash: the state legislature
   briefly but seriously debated overturning the decision by
   constitutional amendment, but popular support for such a measure
   quickly dissipated as same-sex couples began marrying. In the ensuing
   state elections, marriage-equality supporters actually gained seats in
   the legislature.

   Elsewhere, however, the Massachusetts ruling generated enormous
   political resistance. President George W. Bush immediately denounced
   it, and many Republican representatives called for a federal
   constitutional amendment to define marriage as the union of a man and
   woman. In February 2004, after Mayor Gavin Newsom of San Francisco had
   begun marrying same-sex couples in defiance of California law, Bush
   endorsed such an amendment, explaining that, “after more than two
   centuries of American jurisprudence, and millennia of human experience,
   a few judges and local authorities are presuming to change the most
   fundamental institution of civilization.”

   The issue proved an enormous election-year boon to Republicans.
   Americans at the time rejected gay marriage by two to one, and
   opponents generally were more passionate than supporters. At the same
   time, the issue proved vexing to Democrats. Approximately 70 percent of
   self-identified gays voted Democratic, yet some of the party’s
   traditional constituencies, such as working-class Catholics and African
   Americans, tended to strongly oppose gay marriage.

   That summer, Republican congressional leaders forced a vote on the
   proposed amendment, even though it had no realistic chance of passing.
   Its principal sponsor, Senator Wayne Allard of Colorado, warned, “There
   is a master plan out there from those who want to destroy the
   institution of marriage.” Although most congressional Democrats opposed
   the amendment, while supporting civil unions, most swing voters found
   the Republicans’ position more to their liking.

   [ADTECH;loc=300;key=News+Graduate%20Schools+Social%20Sciences+Research+
   +]

   Republicans also placed referenda to preserve the traditional
   definition of marriage on the ballot in 13 states in 2004, hoping to
   make gay marriage more salient in the minds of voters and inspire
   religious conservatives to come to the polls. All the measures passed
   easily, by margins of as much as 86 percent to 14 percent (in
   Mississippi). One newspaper aptly described a “resounding,
   coast-to-coast rejection of gay marriage.” Most of the amendments
   forbade civil unions as well.

    The issue proved decisive in some 2004 political contests. In
   Kentucky, incumbent Senator Jim Bunning, a Republican, began attacking
   gay marriage to rescue his floundering campaign. State party leaders
   called his opponent, a 44-year-old bachelor who opposed the federal
   marriage amendment, “limp-wristed” and a “switch hitter,” and reporters
   began asking him if he was gay. On Election Day, a state ballot measure
   barring gay marriage passed by three to one, while Bunning squeaked
   through with just 50.7 percent of the vote. Analysts attributed his
   victory to a large turnout of rural conservatives mobilized to vote
   against gay marriage.

   In South Dakota, Republican John Thune, an evangelical Christian,
   challenged Senate minority leader Tom Daschle and made opposition to
   gay marriage a centerpiece of his campaign. Thune pressed Daschle to
   explain his opposition to the federal marriage amendment and warned
   that “the institution of marriage is under attack from extremist
   groups. They have done it in Massachusetts and they can do it here.” In
   November, he defeated Daschle by 51 percent to 49 percent—the first
   defeat of a Senate party leader in more than 50 years. Across the
   border in North Dakota, a state marriage amendment passed by 73 percent
   to 27 percent.

   In the 2004 presidential election contest, the incumbent would not have
   won a second term had he not received Ohio’s electoral votes. President
   Bush regularly called for passage of the federal marriage amendment
   during the campaign and reminded voters that his opponent, John Kerry,
   hailed from Massachusetts, whose judges had decreed gay marriage a
   constitutional right. Bush’s margin of victory in Ohio was about 2
   percent, while the gay-marriage ban passed by 24 percentage points. If
   the marriage amendment mobilized enough conservatives to turn out or
   induced enough swing voters to support Bush, it may have determined the
   outcome of the presidential election. Among frequent churchgoers—the
   group most likely to oppose gay marriage—the increase in Bush’s share
   of the popular vote in Ohio from 2000 was 17 percentage points,
   compared to just 1 percentage point nationally.

   During the next two years, 10 more states passed constitutional
   amendments barring same-sex marriage. In 2006-07, high courts in
   Maryland, New Jersey, New York, and Washington—possibly influenced by
   the political backlash ignited by the Massachusetts ruling—also
   rejected gay marriage.

Growing Support

   Despite the fierce political backlash ignited by gay-marriage rulings
   in the 1990s and 2000s, public backing for gay rights continued to
   grow, bolstered by sociological, demographic, and cultural factors.
   Perhaps the most important was that the proportion of Americans who
   reported knowing someone gay increased from 25 percent in 1985 to 74
   percent in 2000. Knowing gay people strongly predicts support for gay
   rights; a 2004 study found that 65 percent of those who reported
   knowing someone gay favored gay marriage or civil unions, versus just
   35 percent of those who reported not knowing any gays.

   Support for allowing gays and lesbians to serve openly in the military
   increased from 56 percent in 1992 to 81 percent in 2004. Backing for
   laws barring discrimination based on sexual orientation in public
   accommodations rose from 48 percent in 1988 to 75 percent in 2004.
   Support for granting same-sex couples the legal rights and benefits of
   marriage without the title increased from 23 percent in 1989 to 56
   percent in 2004.

   Shifts in opinion translated into policy changes. The number of Fortune
   500 companies offering healthcare benefits for same-sex partners rose
   from zero in 1990 to 263 in 2006. The number of states providing health
   benefits to the same-sex partners of public employees rose from zero in
   1993 to 15 in 2008. Those states with antidiscrimination laws covering
   sexual orientation increased from one in 1988 to 20 in 2008.

   Dramatic changes were also afoot in the popular culture. In 1990, only
   one network television show had a regularly appearing gay character,
   and a majority of Americans reported that they would not permit their
   child to watch a show with gay characters. By mid decade, however, the
   most popular situation comedies, such as Friends and Mad About You,
   were dealing with gay marriage, and in 1997, Ellen DeGeneres famously
   came out in a special one-hour episode of her popular show, Ellen.
   Forty-six million viewers were watching, and Time put her on its cover.
   Many Americans feel as if they know their favorite television
   characters, so such small-screen changes also tended to foster
   acceptance of homosexuality.

   As society became more gay-friendly, millions of gays and lesbians
   chose to come out of the closet. And support for gay marriage gradually
   increased as well, despite the political backlash against court rulings
   in its favor. Between the late 1980s and the late 1990s, support grew
   from roughly 10 or 20 percent, to 30 or 35 percent. In 2004, the year
   after the Massachusetts ruling, one study showed that opponents of gay
   marriage outnumbered supporters by 29 percentage points; by 2008, that
   gap had narrowed to 12 percentage points.

   Support for gay marriage grew for a second, related reason: young
   people had come to overwhelmingly support it. They are far more likely
   to know someone who is openly gay and have grown up in an environment
   that is much more tolerant of homosexuality than that of their parents.
   One scholarly study found an extraordinary gap of 44 percentage points
   between the oldest and youngest survey respondents in their attitudes
   toward gay marriage.

   Moreover, despite the short-term political backlash it sparked, gay
   marriage litigation has probably advanced the cause of marriage
   equality over the longer term. The litigation has undoubtedly raised
   the salience of gay marriage, making it an issue subject to much
   broader discussion and action—an initial prerequisite for social
   change.

   The gay-marriage rulings have also affected individuals’ actions and
   preferences. Litigation victories inspired gay activists to file
   lawsuits in additional states. The rulings also led more gay couples to
   want marriage—an institution about which they previously had been
   ambivalent. People often teach themselves not to want something they
   know they cannot have; the court decisions made gay marriage seem more
   attainable.

   Finally, the gay-marriage rulings created thousands of same-sex married
   couples, who quickly became the public face of the issue. In turn,
   friends, neighbors, and co-workers of these couples began to think
   differently about marriage equality. The sky did not fall.

Legislated Marriage Equality

   As support for gay marriage grew, high courts in California and
   Connecticut ruled in its favor in 2008. But the California decision was
   quickly overturned by Proposition 8, which passed by a margin of about
   5 percentage points. (Support for gay marriage in California had grown
   by about 1 percentage point a year since 2000, but its backers remained
   just shy of a majority.)

   Six months after this bitter defeat, gay marriage took an enormous leap
   forward. Within a few weeks in the spring of 2009, the Iowa Supreme
   Court and three legislatures in New England embraced marriage equality.
   The Iowa ruling appeared especially significant: it was unanimous,
   unlike other state court rulings in favor of marriage equality; and it
   came from the nation’s heartland, not one of its politically
   left-of-center coasts. Just days later, Vermont became the first state
   to enact gay marriage legislatively, and New Hampshire and Maine
   quickly followed. It seemed possible that New York and New Jersey would
   do so by year’s end.

   But that fall, Maine voters vetoed the gay-marriage law by 52.8 percent
   to 47.2 percent. That result seemed to influence some legislators in
   New York and New Jersey, where gay-marriage bills were defeated after
   the election. And in Iowa, polls showed a substantial majority opposed
   to their high court’s ruling, but Democrats controlling the state
   legislature refused to permit a referendum on a state marriage
   amendment. In the 2010 Republican gubernatorial primary, all five
   candidates denounced gay marriage; four supported a state
   constitutional amendment to ban it; and the most extreme candidate, Bob
   Vander Plaats, promised an executive order to block implementation of
   the court’s ruling. Vander Plaats came in second in the primary,
   winning 40 percent of the vote, then turned his attention to removing
   the judges responsible for the ruling, three of whom were up for
   retention elections that fall. In 50 years, not a single Iowa justice
   had ever been defeated for retention, but Vander Plaats and his allies
   made the election into a referendum on gay marriage, and the justices
   lost.

   Elsewhere, gay marriage leapt forward. In 2011, the New York
   legislature enacted it. Early in 2012, legislatures in Washington,
   Maryland, and New Jersey passed gay-marriage bills, though Governor
   Chris Christie vetoed the last of these. Last November 6, for the first
   time, American voters endorsed gay marriage, in three states: voters in
   Washington and Maryland ratified marriage-equality bills; Mainers
   approved a gay-marriage initiative (reversing the 2009 outcome). That
   same day, Minnesotans rejected a proposed constitutional amendment to
   bar gay marriage—becoming only the second state in which voters had
   done so.

To the Supreme Court

   This past December, the Supreme Court agreed to review cases
   challenging the constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act and
   California’s Proposition 8.

   Assuming the justices address the substantive merits of either
   challenge (which is uncertain, given procedural issues), they are more
   likely to invalidate DOMA. Several lower courts have already done so,
   at least partly on federalism grounds. Historically, Congress has
   deferred to state definitions of marriage; conservative justices who
   care about preserving traditional spheres of state autonomy may combine
   with liberal justices who probably support marriage equality to
   invalidate the 1996 law. Indeed, a contrary outcome would be
   surprising. In 1996, some sponsors of DOMA defended it in blatantly
   homophobic terms, and Supreme Court precedent forbids statutes to be
   rooted in prejudice. Further, justices are not indifferent to public
   sentiment, and one recent poll shows that Americans favor repeal by 51
   percent to 34 percent.

   Predicting how the Court will rule on Proposition 8 is harder. The
   justices are likely to divide five to four, as they do today on most
   important constitutional issues, such as abortion, affirmative action,
   and campaign-finance reform. As usual, Justice Anthony Kennedy is
   likely to determine the outcome. His vote may turn on how he balances
   two seemingly opposing proclivities. On one hand, his rulings often
   convert dominant national norms into constitutional mandates to
   suppress outlier state practices. (His decisions barring the death
   penalty for minors and the mentally disabled fit this description.)
   This propensity would counsel restraint on the Court’s part with regard
   to gay marriage, given that only nine states and the District of
   Columbia currently permit it.

   On the other hand, Kennedy wrote the Court’s only two decisions
   supporting gay rights, one of which explicitly embraces the notion of a
   living Constitution whose meaning evolves to reflect changing social
   mores. Moreover, his opinions frequently treat international norms as
   relevant to American constitutional interpretation, and marriage
   equality is rapidly gaining momentum in much of the world. Finally,
   Kennedy seems especially attuned to his legacy. How tempting might it
   be for a justice to write the opinion that within a decade or two will
   likely be regarded as the Brown v. Board of Education of the gay-rights
   movement?

   Whether or not the Court deems gay marriage a constitutional right this
   year, the future seems clear. Of late, support for marriage equality
   has been growing two or three percentage points annually. A study by
   statistician Nate Silver finds startling results: in 2013, a majority
   of people in a majority of states support gay marriage. By 2024, he
   projects, even the last holdout, Mississippi, will have a majority in
   favor.

   Even many conservatives have begun to acknowledge the inevitability of
   marriage equality. In March 2011, the president of the Southern Baptist
   Theological Seminary observed that “it is clear that something like
   same-sex marriage…is going to become normalized, legalized, and
   recognized in the culture” and that “it’s time for Christians to start
   thinking about how we’re going to deal with that.”

   That a particular social reform may be inevitable does not mean that
   opponents will cease fighting it. Although conceding, “You can’t fight
   the federal government and win,” many whites in the Deep South
   continued to massively resist Brown and school desegregation, insisting
   that “We’ll never accept it voluntarily” and “They’ll have to force it
   on us.”

   People who believe that gay marriage contravenes God’s will are not
   likely to stop opposing it simply because their prospects of success
   are diminishing. Moreover, religious conservatives who condemn gay
   marriage will continue to influence Republican politicians who need
   their support to win primary elections. Thus, an intense struggle over
   marriage equality is likely to continue for several more years, even
   though the ultimate outcome is no longer seriously in doubt. 

   Kirkland & Ellis professor of law Michael J. Klarman is the author of
   the recently published From the Closet to the Altar: Courts, Backlash,
   and the Struggle for Same-Sex Marriage.
   [ADTECH;loc=300;key=key1+key2+key3+key4]

   View the discussion thread.

   [slide-over_925long_v3b.png]

On Readers’ Radar

    1. Artificial Intelligence and Ethics
    2. Can MOOCs Predict the Future of Online Education?
    3. What’s Up Comes Down, and Vice Versa
    4. Who Built the Pyramids?
    5. The Fringe Benefits of Failure, and the Importance of Imagination

   [ADTECH;loc=300;key=News+Graduate%20Schools+Social%20Sciences+Research+
   +]

You Might Also Like:

     Lapis lazuli pigment entrapped within the dental calculus on the
     lower jaw of a medieval woman.

     Photograph by Christina Warinner

   Manuscripts Illuminated…by Women

     Illustration by John Holcroft

   The positive impact of entrepreneurial immigrants

     Illustration by Robert Neubecker

   How physical appearance influences authority

You Might Also Like:

     Lapis lazuli pigment entrapped within the dental calculus on the
     lower jaw of a medieval woman.

     Photograph by Christina Warinner

   Manuscripts Illuminated…by Women

     Illustration by John Holcroft

   The positive impact of entrepreneurial immigrants

     Illustration by Robert Neubecker

   How physical appearance influences authority
   [ADTECH;loc=300;key=key1+key2+key3+key4]
     * Contact/About
     * Customer Service
     * Donor Services
     * E-Newsletters
     * Advertise
     * My Account
     * FAQ

   Harvard Magazine

   All Content ©1996-2019 Harvard Magazine Inc.
   All right reserved
   Privacy Policy
   Report Copyright Infringement
   facebook twitter linkedin youtube instagram
