   #search

     * (BUTTON)
     * Latest
          +
          +
          +
          +
     * Obsessions

These are the core obsessions that drive our newsroom—defining topics of
seismic importance to the global economy.
          +
          +
          +
          +
     * Featured
          +
          +
          +
          +
     *
     * Emails

Our emails are made to shine in your inbox, with something fresh every
morning, afternoon, and weekend.
          +
          +
          +
          +
     * Editions

Quartz is a guide to the new global economy for people excited by change.
          +

Quartz Africa
            The important stories of innovation across the continent’s
            wide-ranging economies
          +

Quartz India
            In-depth coverage of the world’s largest democracy for India
            and its far-flung diaspora
          +

Quartzy
            Lifestyle, culture, and living well in the new global economy
          +

Quartz at Work
            Management news, advice, and ideas for business leaders
          +

Atlas
            Create, share, and discover charts, using the same tools as
            the Quartz newsroom
     * Become a member
     * (BUTTON)

   Amanda Baeza for Quartz
   Argentina to Mexico, nations across the region are leading the global
   LGBT rights revolution.
   UNDER THE RADAR

Latin America has become an unlikely leader in LGBT rights

   By Anna-Catherine BrigidaJune 6, 2018

   In 2010, Argentina became the first Latin American country to legalize
   same-sex marriage, largely due to the work of LGBT activists like
   Esteban Paulon.

   Paulon, who didn’t have a partner at the time, saw this movement as a
   political struggle, rather than a personal one.

   “I fought for the law without knowing if I would ever get married or
   not,” said Paulon, vice president of the Argentine LGBT Federation.
   “But on the journey to this achievement, I met my partner.”

   Paulon and his partner were married three years after the law was
   passed—turning a national political achievement into a personal
   milestone they were able to celebrate with their friends and family.

   “If the state says that all families are equal before the law and that
   all families have the same worth, this inevitably has an effect on
   daily life and on social perception about sexual diversity,” Paulon
   said. “The fact of being able to access marriage is also personal.”

   Since 2010, more than 15,000 same-sex couples have been married in
   Argentina, the tenth country in the world to legalize same-sex
   marriage. The decision illustrated Latin America’s unlikely leadership
   in the fight for LGBT equal rights. Indeed, the focus on the US gay
   rights movement has overshadowed other countries where important gains
   have been won. Finally, Latin America is being recognized as a major
   leader in the global LGBT movement by both academics and major global
   activists groups like Human Rights Watch.

Following Argentina’s Lead

   And rightly so. Not only was Argentina the first Latin American nation
   to legalize marriage equality, but it has also enacted some of the most
   progressive transgender rights laws in the world. Most notable is a
   2012 ruling that allows transgender folks to change their gender on
   government documents without first having to receive psychiatric
   counseling or transition surgery. Argentina also requires that public
   and private medical facilities provide free hormone therapy and gender
   reassignment surgery.
   While credit has long been given to the US gay rights movement, the
   focus on the English-speaking world has overshadowed other countries
   where important gains have been won.

   Since Argentina legalized same-sex marriage in 2010, Colombia, Brazil,
   Uruguay, Mexico City and 12 Mexican states have also made same-sex
   marriage legal. Other nations, such as Chile and Ecuador, recognize
   civil unions between same-sex couples, though not marriages.These
   advances haven’t been won without vocal—and at time violent—resistance.
   But Latin America’s LGBT push demonstrates how vibrant activist
   networks, effective messaging to citizens, and access to democratic
   institutions have made the legalization of same-sex marriage possible.

   Argentina has a strong history of LGBT organizing, dating back to at
   least the 1960s, explains Jordi Díez, professor at Canada’s University
   of Guelph who has studied the legalization of same-sex marriage in the
   Americas. These networks were key to getting the law passed.

   Argentina transitioned from a brutal military dictatorship to
   democratic rule in the early 1980s—a shift founded on the basis of
   respect for human rights. Accordingly, local LGBT organizations
   successfully appealed to citizens to approve same-sex marriage by
   framing it as a human rights issue.

   Beyond human rights, Argentina also has a unique relationship with
   religion. True, Latin America is known for being overwhelmingly
   Catholic. But the Argentine political system has developed without the
   infiltration of the church within the legislative assembly, Díez
   explains. This means—much like in the US—Argentina has essentially kept
   the church from defining the state.
   REUTERS/Daniel Aguilar
   Same-sex couples celebrate their marriages in Mexico.

   Similar approaches were successful in Mexico, Brazil, and Colombia,
   though they met with more religious resistance than in Argentina.
   Meanwhile, despite Chile’s reputation as one of the most progressive
   countries in the region, a surprisingly strong church has been able to
   halt a range of liberal policies including same-sex marriage and
   abortion.

   Chile is just one of many Latin American nations that have yet to fully
   embrace same-sex rights. Much of the reason for this is economic, says
   Díez: “In Latin America, there is a very strong association with levels
   of economic development, which include levels of education,
   industrialization, et cetera, and support for same-sex marriage.”
   Countries colonized by the Spanish or Portuguese never fully
   criminalized homosexuality like their British colonial counterparts.

   Guatemala, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Honduras score lowest on the
   development index and also have low approval ratings of same-sex
   marriage. In Cuba, the same-sex marriage cause has finally taken up by
   Fidel Castro’s daughter, Mariela Casto, and is expected to be included
   in a larger constitutional reform process slated for this summer. Also,
   slow to same-sex marriage rights are countries in the English-speaking
   Caribbean, which Díez attributes to the legacy of colonialism.

   Countries colonized by the Spanish or Portuguese never fully
   criminalized homosexuality like their British colonial counterparts.
   This means homophobic perceptions may be more deeply entrenched in
   these Anglophone societies—both new and old—according to Díez. Far more
   recently, Spain was among the first European nations to legalize
   same-sex marriage in 2005, which set an example for its former
   colonies. Meanwhile, same-sex marriage wasn’t legalized in the United
   Kingdom until 2013.

The Right to Life

   Although a large portion of the region now has access to a wide range
   of LGBT rights, this fight has not been won without resistance.
   Unfortunately, there is still a high level of violence against the LGBT
   population—particularly trans men and women—in the region. Indeed, a
   2015 study by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights tallied
   nearly 600 LGBT murders across Latin America from January 2013 to March
   2014.

   “Alongside the advance of marriage rights in places like Argentina,
   Uruguay, Colombia, and parts of Mexico, you also have the rise of
   fundamentalist groups linked, above all, to Evangelical groups,” said
   Paulon, who has traveled across the region in the course of his
   activism. Securing basic rights like personal safety remain at the
   forefront of these “outlier” nations—where marriage, sadly, still seems
   like a distant dream.

   Aldo Alexander Peña, a trans man living in El Salvador, was
   hospitalized in 2015 after he was beaten unconscious by police in a
   case that sparked national and international outcry. Since then, Pena
   has become heavily involved in LGBT activism. His current priority—and
   that of the handful of trans-rights organizations in El Salvador —is
   passing a gender identity law to allow trans Salvadorans to legally
   change their name and gender.
   Securing basic rights like personal safety remain at the forefront of
   these “outlier” nations—where marriage, sadly, still seems like a
   distant dream.

   “It’s not that we don’t want to be able to get married and have kids
   one day,” Peña says. “but when we think about it, if they are already
   denying us the right to gender identity so profoundly, how will they
   respond the day that LGBT organizations in El Salvador start to fight
   for same-sex marriage?”

   Peña ran for a seat on the mayoral council in El Salvador’s March 2018
   legislative elections. He didn’t win but believes just running is a
   step forward for the LGBT community in El Salvador as it promotes LGBT
   civic participation and political representation. Yet as Peña can
   attest, much of Central America has a long way to go.

   There were at least 38 deadly hate crimes against LGBT Salvadorans last
   year.

The Campaign for Costa Rica

   Larissa Arroyo, a Costa Rican LGBT rights activist who works with the
   organization Acceder says: “It’s important to understand that marriage
   is not the most important goal or the ultimate objective in the fight
   for equal rights, but rather it is a step, which is often symbolic. The
   goal is really the equal treatment of and the end of discrimination
   against LGBT people.”

   All eyes were on Costa Rica this spring during its presidential
   elections when same-sex marriage became a key issue.

   On Jan. 9, the InterAmerican Court of Human Rights (IACHR) declared in
   a landmark advisory opinion that the American Convention on Human
   Rights—to which Costa Rica is bound—requires all 23 signatory countries
   to legalize same-sex marriage.

   The announcement came during campaign season for Costa Rica’s
   presidential elections. And while human rights activists rejoiced, many
   conservative forces were galvanized to fight the ruling—which quickly
   became a “wedge” issue.

   Throughout the campaign, polls predicted a tight race between Carlos
   Alvarado—of the ruling party, against evangelical Fabricio Alvarado (no
   relation)—who rallied support by speaking out against the IACHR
   decision and the LGBT population.

   “For the first time in my country, I was scared. I was scared for my
   life and for the life of my colleagues,” said Arroyo. During the
   campaign, reports of hate crimes and discrimination against LGBT Costa
   Ricans, Arroyo said.

   Arroyo was prepared for the worst as Costa Ricans headed to the ballot
   box on April 1. She watched the results with friends and colleagues,
   full of fear and anticipation. But Fabricio Alvarado was overwhelmingly
   defeated, losing by a 20 point margin. Relieved, Arroyo was one of many
   Costa Ricans who celebrated with rainbow flags at the Hispanidad
   Fountain, a common meeting place for marches and celebrations in Costa
   Rica’s capital, San Jose.

   “In some way, it was how we said, ‘Ok, now we can return to publicly
   being who we are and we don’t have to be scared anymore of being the
   target of some type of violence,’” she said. Still, same-sex marriage
   is still not legal in Costa Rica, and legislation would have to be
   proposed in Congress to afford this right to all citizens.

   And so the fight continues.

   “Our view, at least from the point of activists, is that we are not
   just going to let them give us a small victory,” said Arroyo. “We want
   all of our rights and no more discrimination.”

   This story is part of our series on Global Pride.
   ____________________

Tags

   mexico, LGBT, latin america, argentina, marriage equality
   Created with Sketch.LatestCreated with Sketch.FeaturedCreated with
   Sketch.ObsessionsCreated with Sketch.EmailsEditions
   (BUTTON) Close

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MRD738C
