
<fichier: EN-1.txt>

     * GAY MARRIAGE - MENU
          + GAY MARRIAGE - HOME
               o Did You Know? Readers' Comments Video Gallery Gay
                 Marriage around the World Gay Marriage Timeline
                 State-by-State History of Banning and Legalizing Gay
                 Marriage, 1994-2015 Gay Marriage in the US Supreme Court,
               o Source Biographies Footnotes & Sources Gay Marriage in
                 the US Supreme Court, 2013 Top "Gay-Friendly" and
                 "Gay-Unfriendly" US Companies, 2011 2012 Presidential
                 Candidates' Positions on Gay Marriage US Gay Marriage
                 on Gay Marriage
               o Gay Marriage
               o Born Gay? Origins of Sexual Orientation
            Born Gay? Origins of Sexual Orientation
            Gay Marriage
            Gay Marriage - Should Gay Marriage Be Legal?
            Born Gay? - Is Sexual Orientation Determined at Birth?
   GAY MARRIAGE
   [gay-marriage-wide.jpg]
   Should Gay Marriage Be Legal?
   On June 26, 2015, the US Supreme Court ruled that gay marriage is a
   decision, same-sex marriage was already legal in 37 states and
   had shifted significantly over the years, from 27% approval of gay
   marriage in 1996 to 60% in 2015, the year it became legal throughout
   Proponents of legal gay marriage contend that gay marriage bans are
   Opponents contend that marriage has traditionally been defined as being
   between one man and one woman, and that marriage is primarily for
   Court Judge Sarah Zabel ruled Florida's gay marriage ban
   [Legalizing gay marriage] is the right thing to do and it is time."
   overturning same-sex marriage bans in Wisconsin and Indiana in Sep.
   sexual orientation, gay marriage bans discriminate based on one's sex.
   government does not grant equivalent benefits to gay couples in civil
   by the New York Times estimated that same-sex couples denied marriage
   The concept of "traditional marriage" has changed over time, and the
   definition of marriage as always being between one man and one woman is
   marriage was once illegal in a majority of US states, and was still
   between same-sex couples, indistinguishable from marriages except for
   Gay marriage is protected by the US Constitution's commitments to
   choice in matters of marriage and family life is one of the liberties
   wrote on Aug. 4, 2010 that Prop. 8 in California banning gay marriage
   Marriage is an internationally recognized human right for all people.
   Since 1888 the US Supreme Court has declared 14 times that marriage is
   a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during
   marriage and at its dissolution." [103] Amnesty International states
   Same-sex marriage is a civil right. The NAACP (National Association for
   marriage as "one of the key civil rights struggles of our time." [61]
   Virginia that marriage is "one of the basic civil rights of man." [60]
   The White House website lists same-sex marriage amongst a selection of
   Marriage is not only for procreation, otherwise infertile couples or
   for marriage. From 1970 through 2012 roughly 30% of all US households
   marriage license would be granted to a couple in which the man and
   children coming out of that marriage." [88]
   Gay marriages can bring financial gain to federal, state, and local
   marriage comes from marriage licenses, higher income taxes in some
   circumstances (the so-called "marriage penalty"), and decreases in
   Michael Bloomberg announced that gay marriage had contributed $259
   after Massachusetts legalized gay marriage in 2004, same-sex wedding
   the Williams Institute estimated that legalizing same-sex marriage
   estimated in 2004 that federally-recognized gay marriage would cut the
   Gay couples make good parents. A June 2014 peer-reviewed University of
   study found that children of gay fathers were "as well-adjusted as
   columnist Ezra Klein wrote, "We should be begging gay couples to adopt
   children. We should see this as a great boon that gay marriage could
   Gay marriage bans cause humiliation and uncertainty for children being
   raised by same-sex couples. In ruling Texas' gay marriage ban
   Marriage provides both physical and psychological health benefits, and
   banning gay marriage increases rates of psychological disorders. [5]
   that already facilitates and strengthens heterosexual marriages, with
   distressed than lesbian, gay, and bisexual persons not in a legally
   banned gay marriage, gay, lesbian and bisexual people suffered a 37%
   Legalizing gay marriage will not harm the institution of marriage, and
   same-sex marriages may even be more stable than heterosexual marriages.
   that "[l]aws permitting same-sex marriage or civil unions have no
   adverse effect on marriage, divorce, and abortion rates, [or] the
   recognized same-sex couples (in marriages or civil unions, etc.) end
   civilization or viable social orders depend upon marriage as an
   Gay marriage legalization is correlated with lower divorce rates, while
   gay marriage bans are correlated with higher divorce rates.
   Massachusetts, which became the first US state to legalize gay marriage
   its constitution to prohibit gay marriage in 1998, saw a 17.2% increase
   prohibitions to gay marriage. [2]
   Legal marriage is a secular institution that should not be limited by
   religious objections to same-sex marriage. Religious institutions can
   decline to marry gay and lesbian couples if they wish, but they should
   not dictate marriage laws for society at large. As explained by People
   for the American Way, "As a legal matter, marriage is a civil
   institution... Marriage is also a religious institution, defined
   both religious and civil marriage in a single ceremony. Religious Right
   same-sex couples equal access to civil marriage would somehow also
   redefine the religious institution of marriage... this is grounded in
   and regulating marriage." [41]
   Many religious leaders and churches support gay marriage and say it is
   consistent with scripture. Gene Robinson, openly gay former Bishop of
   marriage at all, nor does it make reference to sexual orientation as it
   the American Jewish population, endorses same-sex marriage, and the
   Central Conference of American Rabbis has supported gay marriage since
   that prohibits same-sex civil marriage or civil unions." The
   in July 2005 to affirm "equal marriage rights for couples regardless of
   marriage between members of the same sex." [119] [141][142] [143]
   The institution of marriage has traditionally been defined as being
   between a man and a woman. In upholding gay marriage bans in Kentucky,
   Appeals Judge Jeffrey S. Sutton wrote that "marriage has long been a
   Minnesota found that "the institution of marriage as a union of man and
   "Throughout the history of the human race the institution of marriage
   Marriage is for procreation and should not be extended to same-sex
   couples because they cannot produce children together. Allowing gay
   marriage would only further shift the purpose of marriage from
   defending Arizona's gay marriage ban stated that "the State regulates
   marriage for the primary purpose of channeling potentially procreative
   biological father." Contrary to the pro gay marriage argument that some
   Doug Mainwaring, the openly gay co-founder of National Capital Tea
   Legalizing gay marriage could lead down a "slippery slope," giving
   de-institutionalizing marriage." [11] In Apr. 2013 Slate writer Jillian
   Keenan wrote: "Just like heterosexual marriage is no better or worse
   than homosexual marriage, marriage between two consenting adults is not
   inherently more or less 'correct' than marriage among three (or four,
   marriage will enable "group marriage," "marriage between daddies and
   little girls," and "marriage between a man and his donkey." [136]
   Allowing gay couples to wed could further weaken the institution of
   marriage. Traditional marriage is already threatened with high divorce
   presidential candidate Rick Santorum stated that "Legalization of gay
   marriage would further undermine an institution that is essential to
   Society at The Heritage Foundation, said "In recent decades, marriage
   desires than children’s needs... Redefining marriage to include
   would leave emotional intensity as the only thing that sets marriage
   Homosexuality is immoral and unnatural. J. Matt Barber, Associate Dean
   "Every individual engaged in the homosexual lifestyle, who has adopted
   a homosexual identity, they know, intuitively, that what they're doing
   stated: "There are absolutely no grounds for considering homosexual
   plan for marriage and family... Marriage is holy, while homosexual acts
   that gay marriage is "inconsistent with nature and nature’s law." [148]
   Gay marriage is contrary to the word of God and is incompatible with
   with womankind: it is abomination," thus condemning homosexual
   attributed to the Prophet Muhammad) condemn gay and lesbian
   American Baptist Churches USA all oppose same-sex marriage. [119] Two
   Orthodox Union, also oppose gay marriage, as does mainstream Islam.
   marriage "was established by the Creator with its own nature, essential
   certainty that marriage exists solely between a man and a woman…" [54]
   Pope Benedict stated in Jan. 2012 that gay marriage threatened "the
   Legalizing gay marriage often leads to an end to domestic partnership
   benefits for gay and straight couples, which disadvantages couples who
   new domestic partnerships after same-sex marriage became legal in the
   converted domestic partnerships to marriages when they legalized gay
   marriage in 2012, providing no option to retain domestic partnerships
   Supreme Court declared part of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA)
   Gay marriage will accelerate the assimilation of gays into mainstream
   heterosexual culture to the detriment of the homosexual community. The
   gay community has created its own vibrant culture. By reducing the
   differences in opportunities and experiences between gay and
   Amherst, stated that for many gay activists "marriage means adopting
   heterosexual forms of family and giving up distinctively gay family
   forms and perhaps even gay and lesbian culture." [14] Paula Ettelbrick,
   JD, Professor of Law and Women's Studies, wrote in 1989, "Marriage runs
   contrary to two of the primary goals of the lesbian and gay movement:
   the affirmation of gay identity and culture and the validation of many
   Marriage is an outmoded, oppressive institution that should be
   weakened, not expanded. LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender)
   activist collective Against Equality states that "Gay marriage apes
   health care and economic rights." [84] The leaders of the Gay
   institution of marriage as one of the most insidious and basic
   2013 that the campaign for gay marriage "intentionally and maliciously
   people in non-traditional families... marriage thinks non-married
   Studies at the Family Research Council, said that if gay marriage were
   subsidize homosexual relationships... One of the key arguments often
   heard in support of homosexual civil marriage revolves around all the
   government 'benefits' that homosexuals claim they are denied. Many of
   these 'benefits' involve one thing–taxpayer money that homosexuals are
   eager to get their hands on." [146] Gay marriage would entitle gay
   couples to typical marriage benefits including claiming a tax exemption
   Marriage is a privilege, not a right. The US Constitution contains no
   traditional definition of marriage, and stated that the Convention for
   traditional concept of marriage as being between a man and a woman."
   Legalizing gay marriage advances the "homosexual agenda" and unfairly
   if gay marriage is legalized, "Children will be taught that
   homosexuality is morally equivalent to heterosexuality... that children
   marriage' was equivalent to opposition to the legalization of
   interracial marriage. They will be taught that opposition to both was
   the "homosexual agenda," writing that "[o]ur little children are being
   targeted by the homosexuals and liberals... To be brainwashed to think
   that homosexuality is the moral equivalent of heterosexuality. We can't
   benefits gay couples need without changing the definition of marriage.
   as an equivalent to marriage for same-sex couples: "Benefits are being
   bestowed to gay couples [in civil unions]... I believe we need to
   respect those who believe that the word marriage has a spiritual
   do so... I strongly believe that marriage ought to be defined as
   ruled Florida's gay marriage ban unconstitutional and stated that the
   disabilities, immigrants... [Legalizing gay marriage] is the right
   Judge Richard Posner, in overturning same-sex marriage bans in
   well as discrimination based on sexual orientation, gay marriage bans
   benefits to gay couples in civil unions or domestic partnerships. [153]
   same-sex couples denied marriage benefits will incur an additional
   The concept of "traditional marriage" has changed over time, and the
   definition of marriage as always being between one man and one woman is
The concept of "traditional marriage" has changed over time, and the
definition of marriage as always being between one man and one woman is
   McDermott, PhD. [110] [106] Interracial marriage was once illegal in a
   indistinguishable from marriages except for gender, are believed by
   Gay marriage is protected by the US Constitution's commitments to
Gay marriage is protected by the US Constitution's commitments to liberty and
   marriage and family life is one of the liberties protected by the Due
   that Prop. 8 in California banning gay marriage was "unconstitutional
   Marriage is an internationally recognized human right for all people.
   Since 1888 the US Supreme Court has declared 14 times that marriage is
Marriage is an internationally recognized human right for all people.
   Since 1888 the US Supreme Court has declared 14 times that marriage is
   a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during
   marriage and at its dissolution." [103] Amnesty International states
   Same-sex marriage is a civil right. The NAACP (National Association for
   marriage... Read More
Same-sex marriage is a civil right.
   on May 21, 2012, named same-sex marriage as "one of the key civil
   unanimously confirmed in Loving v. Virginia that marriage is "one of
   same-sex marriage amongst a selection of civil rights, along with
   Marriage is not only for procreation, otherwise infertile couples or
Marriage is not only for procreation, otherwise infertile couples or couples
   for marriage. From 1970 through 2012 roughly 30% of all US households
   marriage license would be granted to a couple in which the man and
   children coming out of that marriage." [88]
   Gay marriages can bring financial gain to federal, state, and local
   marriage... Read More
Gay marriages can bring financial gain to federal, state, and local
   Government revenue from marriage comes from marriage licenses, higher
   income taxes in some circumstances (the so-called "marriage penalty"),
   York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg announced that gay marriage had
   first five years after Massachusetts legalized gay marriage in 2004,
   same-sex marriage would boost the economies of the 11 US states studied
   Budget Office estimated in 2004 that federally-recognized gay marriage
   Gay couples make good parents. A June 2014 peer-reviewed University of
Gay couples make good parents.
   social problems. [45] A July 2010 study found that children of gay
   "We should be begging gay couples to adopt children. We should see this
   as a great boon that gay marriage could bring to kids who need nothing
   Gay marriage bans cause humiliation and uncertainty for children being
   raised by same-sex couples. In ruling Texas' gay marriage ban
Gay marriage bans cause humiliation and uncertainty for children being raised
   In ruling Texas' gay marriage ban unconstitutional, San Antonio-based
   Marriage provides both physical and psychological health benefits, and
   banning gay marriage increases rates of psychological disorders. The…
Marriage provides both physical and psychological health benefits, and
banning gay marriage increases rates of psychological disorders.
   that already facilitates and strengthens heterosexual marriages, with
   distressed than lesbian, gay, and bisexual persons not in a legally
   banned gay marriage, gay, lesbian and bisexual people suffered a 37%
   Legalizing gay marriage will not harm the institution of marriage, and
   same-sex marriages may even be more stable than heterosexual marriages.
Legalizing gay marriage will not harm the institution of marriage, and
same-sex marriages may even be more stable than heterosexual marriages.
   that "[l]aws permitting same-sex marriage or civil unions have no
   adverse effect on marriage, divorce, and abortion rates, [or] the
   recognized same-sex couples (in marriages or civil unions, etc.) end
   civilization or viable social orders depend upon marriage as an
   Gay marriage legalization is correlated with lower divorce rates, while
   gay marriage bans are correlated with higher divorce rates.
Gay marriage legalization is correlated with lower divorce rates, while gay
marriage bans are correlated with higher divorce rates.
   Massachusetts, which became the first US state to legalize gay marriage
   its constitution to prohibit gay marriage in 1998, saw a 17.2% increase
   prohibitions to gay marriage. [2]
   Legal marriage is a secular institution that should not be limited by
   religious objections to same-sex marriage. Religious institutions can
Legal marriage is a secular institution that should not be limited by
religious objections to same-sex marriage.
   Religious institutions can decline to marry gay and lesbian couples if
   they wish, but they should not dictate marriage laws for society at
   marriage is a civil institution... Marriage is also a religious
   to carry out both religious and civil marriage in a single ceremony.
   granting same-sex couples equal access to civil marriage would somehow
   also redefine the religious institution of marriage... this is grounded
   and regulating marriage." [41]
   Many religious leaders and churches support gay marriage and say it is
   consistent with scripture. Gene Robinson, openly gay former Bishop of
Many religious leaders and churches support gay marriage and say it is
   Gene Robinson, openly gay former Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of New
   makes no mention of same-sex marriage at all, nor does it make
   endorses same-sex marriage, and the Central Conference of American
   Rabbis has supported gay marriage since 1996. [130] The Episcopal
   marriage or civil unions." The Presbyterian Church (USA) voted in June
   of Christ General Synod voted in July 2005 to affirm "equal marriage
   of legal recognition for marriage between members of the same sex."
   The institution of marriage has traditionally been defined as being
   between a man and a woman. In upholding gay marriage bans in Kentucky,
The institution of marriage has traditionally been defined as being between a
   In upholding gay marriage bans in Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio and
   Jeffrey S. Sutton wrote that "marriage has long been a social
   Minnesota found that "the institution of marriage as a union of man and
   "Throughout the history of the human race the institution of marriage
   Marriage is for procreation and should not be extended to same-sex
   couples because they cannot produce children together. Allowing gay
   marriage would... Read More
Marriage is for procreation and should not be extended to same-sex couples
   Allowing gay marriage would only further shift the purpose of marriage
   defending Arizona's gay marriage ban stated that "the State regulates
   marriage for the primary purpose of channeling potentially procreative
   biological father." Contrary to the pro gay marriage argument that some
   famil[ies]." [133] Doug Mainwaring, the openly gay co-founder of
   Legalizing gay marriage could lead down a "slippery slope," giving
Legalizing gay marriage could lead down a "slippery slope," giving people in
   couples as a springboard for further de-institutionalizing marriage."
   heterosexual marriage is no better or worse than homosexual marriage,
   marriage between two consenting adults is not inherently more or less
   'correct' than marriage among three (or four, or six) consenting
   Family, predicted in 2005 that legalizing same-sex marriage will enable
   "group marriage," "marriage between daddies and little girls," and
   "marriage between a man and his donkey." [136]
   Allowing gay couples to wed could further weaken the institution of
   marriage. Traditional marriage is already threatened with high divorce
Allowing gay couples to wed could further weaken the institution of marriage.
   Traditional marriage is already threatened with high divorce rates
   presidential candidate Rick Santorum stated that "Legalization of gay
   marriage would further undermine an institution that is essential to
   Society at The Heritage Foundation, said "In recent decades, marriage
   desires than children’s needs... Redefining marriage to include
   would leave emotional intensity as the only thing that sets marriage
   Homosexuality is immoral and unnatural. J. Matt Barber, Associate Dean
Homosexuality is immoral and unnatural.
   homosexual lifestyle, who has adopted a homosexual identity, they know,
   grounds for considering homosexual unions to be in any way similar or
   even remotely analogous to God's plan for marriage and family...
   Marriage is holy, while homosexual acts go against the natural moral
   candidate Mike Huckabee stated in Oct. 2014 that gay marriage is
   Gay marriage is contrary to the word of God and is incompatible with
Gay marriage is contrary to the word of God and is incompatible with the
   homosexual relationships. [120] In Islamic tradition, several hadiths
   (passages attributed to the Prophet Muhammad) condemn gay and lesbian
   American Baptist Churches USA all oppose same-sex marriage. [119] Two
   Orthodox Union, also oppose gay marriage, as does mainstream Islam.
   marriage "was established by the Creator with its own nature, essential
   certainty that marriage exists solely between a man and a woman…" [54]
   Pope Benedict stated in Jan. 2012 that gay marriage threatened "the
   Legalizing gay marriage often leads to an end to domestic partnership
   benefits for gay and straight couples, which disadvantages couples who
Legalizing gay marriage often leads to an end to domestic partnership
benefits for gay and straight couples, which disadvantages couples who choose
   after same-sex marriage became legal in the state in 2013. [124] [135]
   to marriages when they legalized gay marriage in 2012, providing no
   declared part of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) unconstitutional in
   Gay marriage will accelerate the assimilation of gays into mainstream
   heterosexual culture to the detriment of the homosexual community. The
   gay... Read More
Gay marriage will accelerate the assimilation of gays into mainstream
heterosexual culture to the detriment of the homosexual community.
   The gay community has created its own vibrant culture. By reducing the
   differences in opportunities and experiences between gay and
   Amherst, stated that for many gay activists "marriage means adopting
   heterosexual forms of family and giving up distinctively gay family
   forms and perhaps even gay and lesbian culture." [14] Paula Ettelbrick,
   JD, Professor of Law and Women's Studies, wrote in 1989, "Marriage runs
   contrary to two of the primary goals of the lesbian and gay movement:
   the affirmation of gay identity and culture and the validation of many
   Marriage is an outmoded, oppressive institution that should be
   weakened, not expanded. LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender)
Marriage is an outmoded, oppressive institution that should be weakened, not
   LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender) activist collective
   Against Equality states that "Gay marriage apes hetero privilege...
   economic rights." [84] The leaders of the Gay Liberation Front in New
   York said in July 1969, "We expose the institution of marriage as one
   Zanichkowsky stated in June 2013 that the campaign for gay marriage
   queer people, and queer people in non-traditional families... marriage
   Research Council, said that if gay marriage were legalized,
   homosexual relationships... One of the key arguments often heard in
   support of homosexual civil marriage revolves around all the government
   'benefits' that homosexuals claim they are denied. Many of these
   'benefits' involve one thing–taxpayer money that homosexuals are eager
   to get their hands on." [146] Gay marriage would entitle gay couples to
   typical marriage benefits including claiming a tax exemption for a
   Marriage is a privilege, not a right. The US Constitution contains no
Marriage is a privilege, not a right.
   marriage, and stated that the Convention for the Protection of Human
   marriage as being between a man and a woman." [101] [102] Society can
   Legalizing gay marriage advances the "homosexual agenda" and unfairly
   if gay… Read More
Legalizing gay marriage advances the "homosexual agenda" and unfairly paints
   The Illinois Family Institute states that if gay marriage is legalized,
   "Children will be taught that homosexuality is morally equivalent to
   the legalization of 'same-sex marriage' was equivalent to opposition to
   the legalization of interracial marriage. They will be taught that
   influence on children of the "homosexual agenda," writing that "[o]ur
   little children are being targeted by the homosexuals and liberals...
   To be brainwashed to think that homosexuality is the moral equivalent
   benefits gay couples need without changing the definition of marriage…
benefits gay couples need without changing the definition of marriage.
   as an equivalent to marriage for same-sex couples: "Benefits are being
   bestowed to gay couples [in civil unions]... I believe we need to
   respect those who believe that the word marriage has a spiritual
   do so... I strongly believe that marriage ought to be defined as
    1. On May 17, 2004, the first legal gay marriage in the United States
    2. The world's first legal gay marriage ceremony took place in the
       same-sex couples denied marriage benefits will incur an additional
       oppose same-sex marriage. [119]
    1. Gay Marriage in the US Supreme Court, 2015
    2. Are people born gay? Pros and cons in debate over origin of sexual
    3. History of the Same-Sex Marriage Debate, 1970 - present
   Gay Marriage Homepage
   Gay Marriage around the World
   Gay Marriage Timeline
   State-by-State History of Banning and Legalizing Gay Marriage,
   Gay Marriage in the US Supreme Court, 2015
   Gay Marriage in the US Supreme Court, 2013
   Top "Gay-Friendly" and "Gay-Unfriendly" US Companies, 2011
   2012 Presidential Candidates' Positions on Gay Marriage
   US Gay Marriage Polls, 1988-2010
   2016 Presidential Candidates' Positions on Gay Marriage

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-2.txt>

Tanzania: men arrested for 'gay marriage' face anal examinations
   for Tanzanians to report homosexuals. Photograph: Khalfan Said
   Ten men arrested for allegedly conducting a same-sex marriage ceremony
   The procedure is supposed to discover evidence of homosexual activity,
   homosexuals for round-ups in a country where anti-gay rhetoric has
   would target gay people, who could face lengthy prison sentences.
   However, other activists said that physical attacks on homosexuals were
   distributing free lube to gay people as part of efforts to control the
   weekend were suspected of conducting a gay marriage because police
   Homosexuality remains taboo across much of Africa and gay people face
   to speak publicly in defence of gay rights.

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-3.txt>

Same-sex marriage
   Same-sex marriage, the practice of marriage between two men or between
   two women. Although same-sex marriage has been regulated through law,
   period when attitudes toward homosexuality and laws regulating
   homosexual behaviour were liberalized, particularly in western Europe
   The issue of same-sex marriage frequently sparked emotional and
   levels, had legalized same-sex marriage; in other jurisdictions,
   constitutional measures were adopted to prevent same-sex marriages from
   marriages performed elsewhere. That the same act was evaluated so
   tables on same-sex marriage around the world, in the United States, and
Cultural ideals of marriage and sexual partnership
   Perhaps the earliest systematic analyses of marriage and kinship were
   century an enormous variety of marriage and sexual customs across
   most cultures expressed an ideal form of marriage and an ideal set of
   marriage partners, while also practicing flexibility in the application
   Among the more common forms so documented were common-law marriage;
   morganatic marriage, in which titles and property do not pass to
   children; exchange marriage, in which a sister and a brother from one
   family marry a brother and a sister from another; and group marriages
   traditional part of the marriage contract.
   Cultures that openly accepted homosexuality, of which there were many,
Religious and secular expectations of marriage and sexuality
   marriage practices once existed, conquering nations typically forced
   marriage.
   had legalized same-sex marriage, for instance, despite official
   had a less determinate effect on the outcome of same-sex marriage
   Netherlands—the first country to grant equal marriage rights to
   opposed same-sex marriage for one or more of the following stated
   reasons: homosexual acts violate natural law or divine intentions and
   are therefore immoral; passages in sacred texts condemn homosexual
   acts; and religious tradition recognizes only the marriage of one man
   on this issue. Orthodox Judaism opposed same-sex marriage, while the
   and the gay-oriented Universal Fellowship of Metropolitan Community
   Churches fully accepted same-sex marriage. Hinduism, without a sole
   viewed all marriage as a choice between the two individuals involved.
   interact; definitions of the purpose of marriage is another. In one
   view, the purpose of marriage is to ensure successful procreation and
   child rearing. In another, marriage provides a—and perhaps
   marriage is an instrument of societal domination and so is not
   Proponents of the first view believe that the primary goal of marriage
   both necessary for procreation, the privileges of marriage should be
   same-sex marriage is a misguided attempt to deny the social, moral, and
   same-sex marriage is problematic, there is also a tendency for the
   In contrast to the procreative model of marriage, advocates of the
   legalization of same-sex marriage generally believed that committed
   damaging the community. Most same-sex marriage advocates further held
   specific group from the full rights of marriage was illegally
   the legal perquisites associated with heterosexual marriage should be
   male-female, man-woman, gay-straight) and to replace these with
   practices of humanity. Queer advocates contended that marriage is an
   marriage should be disestablished as a cultural institution.
   order, infrastructure, and defense. For libertarians, marriage
   same-sex marriage—fell outside of the role of government and was
   unacceptable. As a result, many libertarians believed that marriage
Same-sex marriage and the law
   reproduction, and marriage in myriad ways. Their responses regarding
   similar or equal to that of heterosexual marriage. Many countries have
   yet to reach a consensus on these issues. (See also marriage law.)
   of same-sex marriage by treating same-sex intimacy as a subject
   homosexuality and lesbianism are mental disorders and built their
   marriage from the realm of civil regulations (the domain of contract
   registered partnerships—an attenuated version of marriage—for same-sex
   heterosexual marriages, went into effect in Norway (1993), Sweden
   marriage-for-procreation and marriage-for-community-good positions
   Israel recognized common-law same-sex marriage in the mid-1990s (the
   Israeli Supreme Court further ruled in 2006 that same-sex marriages
   “marriage” to same-sex as well as heterosexual unions. In 2000 the
   became the first country to offer marriage to same-sex couples; several
   other European countries subsequently legalized gay marriage. In 2003
   recognizing the same-sex marriages of fellow EU countries. As countries
   in Europe, began to shift in favour of full marriage rights for
   same-sex marriage should be legal throughout Europe; in a further seven
   support for same-sex marriage was quite low, often with fewer than
   approved of legalizing same-sex marriage in the United Kingdom; such
   marriages were legalized in England and Wales in 2013, and Scotland
   legislation legalizing same-sex marriage. Thereafter, South Africa
   countries, respectively, to legalize same-sex marriage. New Zealand
   legalized same-sex marriage in 2017, but the following year it passed a
   bill that replaced such marriages with domestic partnerships. Bermuda
   thus became the first country to repeal same-sex marriage.
   In other countries, decisions on same-sex marriage were effectively
   legalized same-sex marriage. Soon after the law went into effect in
   all states in the country had to recognize same-sex marriages performed
   in Mexico City. Gay marriage was later made legal, under the same
   couple the legal protections of marriage, although it stopped short of
   specifically authorizing same-sex marriage at the federal level. In
   same-sex marriages, which were considered valid throughout Brazil,
   jurisdiction in Australia to pass a law permitting the marriage of
   Australians voted for same-sex marriage in a nonbinding referendum.
   legalizing same-sex marriage, and it was signed into law in December
   In the United States the question of whether couples of the same sex
   plaintiffs claimed that the state’s refusal to issue marriage licenses
   compelling interest in preventing same-sex marriage, as that practice
   to the state constitution and thus made moot the issuing of marriage
   enacted the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). This legislation declared
   that same-sex marriages would not be recognized for federal purposes,
   no U.S. state or territory was required to recognize marriages from
   constitutional amendments declaring variously that marriage was legally
   defined as a heterosexual institution, that same-sex marriages from
   other states would not be recognized, or that same-sex marriage was
   the rights and responsibilities of marriage but not the name. In 2003
   marriage licenses to same-sex couples violated the state constitution;
   the situation. The state soon began to issue marriage licenses for
   2004 by issuing marriage licenses in defiance of local prohibitions;
   Connecticut—struck down state laws limiting marriage to the union
   passed a referendum, Proposition 8, that defined marriage as a union
   grounds that the prohibition of same-sex marriage violated the due
   gay marriage, and soon afterward the legislatures of Vermont, Maine,
   and New Hampshire legalized same-sex marriage—though in November 2009
   same-sex marriage were passed by legislatures in Maryland and
   became the first in the country to approve same-sex marriage at the
   American legal scholars and same-sex marriage advocates developed
   exegeses or other religious doctrine to support claims that marriage,
   same-sex marriage, but by 2010 about half of the population supported
   support same-sex marriage. In December the U.S. Supreme Court announced
   same-sex marriage: U.S. demonstration
   same-sex marriage: U.S. demonstrationDemonstrators in favour of
   same-sex marriage protesting in front of the U.S. Supreme Court
   overturned state bans of same-sex marriage. In all but two of those
   performed same-sex marriages prior to their suspension. U.S. Attorney
   General Eric Holder announced that those marriages would be recognized
   all lawful marriages in the United States. In October the U.S. Supreme
   states, which effectively made same-sex marriage legal in those
   jurisdictions. As an indirect consequence, same-sex marriage was soon
   end of 2014, the number of states where such marriages were legal had
   state laws and constitutional amendments banning same-sex marriage or
   the recognition of same-sex marriages performed in other jurisdictions.
   Circuit’s holdings, thereby legalizing same-sex marriage in all 50
   Court's ruling that effectively legalized same-sex marriage, June
The future of same-sex marriage
   marriage is simply not an urgent matter. In others, the broad spectrum
   of notions about sexuality and the purpose of marriage is compounded by
Same-sex marriage around the world
   marriage, as well as selected countries that offer some other legal
   CAPTION: Same-sex marriage around the world
   Countries with same-sex marriage^1
   ^1Same-sex marriage is also legal in parts of Mexico, and marriages
   ^2Same-sex marriage is legal in England, Wales, and Scotland.
       marriage and on recognizing same-sex marriages performed in other
       …which were the legalization of same-sex marriage and the
       …support for the legalization of same-sex marriage in a nonbinding
       to revise Australia’s Marriage Amendment Act 2004, which defined
       marriage as being between a man and a woman, and in December 2017
       Parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of marriage equality.…
       …nature of Canadian law regarding same-sex marriage was brought
       …in the world to approve same-sex marriage by referendum when 62
       allowing it. This result and the election of the openly gay
     * gay rights movement: Proposition 8
More About Same-sex marriage
     * National Conference of State Legislatures - Same-Sex Marriage Laws
     * same-sex marriage - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up)
   Same-sex marriage
   same-sex marriage View All Media
          + Marriage
          + Homosexuality
     * Homosexuality
     * Marriage
     * Common-law marriage
     * Common-law marriage
     * Banns of marriage
     * Group marriage
     * Cultural ideals of marriage and sexual partnership
     * Religious and secular expectations of marriage and sexuality
     * Same-sex marriage and the law
     * The future of same-sex marriage
     * Same-sex marriage around the world
   Same-sex marriage
   Same-sex marriage

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-4.txt>

State Same-Sex Marriage State Laws Map
   legalized gay marriage: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado,
   same-sex marriage, known as "Defense of Marriage" Acts. The following
   Same-Sex Marriage Map
   Same-sex marriage legalized
   Constitutional or statutory provisions prohibiting same-sex marriage
North Carolina Senate Overrides Governor's Veto of Anti-Gay Marriage Bill
North Carolina Governor Vetoes Anti-Gay Marriage Bill
Anti-Gay Marriage Bill Goes to North Carolina Governor's Desk
   magistrates to opt out of performing marriages and said he won't sign
Judge Legalizes Gay Marriage in Alabama, But Not Yet
   marriage reaffirmed her decision Thursday evening, but delayed its

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-5.txt>

Obama Gave Us Gay Marriage, Trump The Honeymoon From Hell
   The fight for marriage equality drove LGBT politics in the first decade
   [180928-Teeman-Obama-Gave-Us-gay-marriage-tease_zigqrt]
   became the third U.S. state to legalize gay marriage, and a month
   state’s ruling the previous May that had legalized gay marriage.
   (Marriage equality eventually became law in California in 2013.)
   The last 10 years in American LGBT politics featured marriage equality
   Following a momentous SCOTUS ruling, marriage equality was finally
   meaning of marriage equality—so hard fought, and a brilliant
   down in 2013 of the discriminatory section of the Defense of Marriage
   chosen an insidious scythe to chop away at not just marriage equality
   posits that it is fine to not marry gay people, or serve them in shops,
   worry, concern, and the feeling that not only is marriage equality

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-6.txt>

Cuba's new president backs same-sex marriage
   Diaz-Canel said he supports gay marriage.
   constitution to allow same-sex marriage.
   legalizing gay marriage in the country. Mariela Castro is the daughter
   same-sex marriage to be included in the country’s constitutional reform

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-7.txt>

Kentucky clerk jailed over gay marriage licenses loses re-election bid
   issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples, lost her bid for a second
   refusing to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples lost her bid
   Davis became a national figure when she stopped issuing marriage
   overturned same-sex marriage bans nationwide. Davis cited her religious
   she quit issuing marriage licenses altogether.
Colorado's Jared Polis projected to be first openly gay man elected governor
   state Constitution defining marriage as between one man and one woman.
   marry. The ruling overturned same-sex marriage bans nationwide.
   Days after the ruling, Davis stopped issuing marriage licenses.
   She was sued by gay and straight couples, and a federal judge ordered
   a law removing the names of all county clerks from state marriage

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-8.txt>

Gay marriage: Europe split in two
   Scott D'Amico, left, and Brad Harker celebrate after the same sex
   marriage vote result announcement in Queens Park, Australia. (Photo:
   Scott D'Amico, left, and Brad Harker celebrate after the same sex
   marriage vote result announcement in Queens Park, Australia. (Photo:
     * Zim gay group calls for tough govt action against abuse of its
     * US restricts visas to unmarried gay diplomats
     * Have your say on Home Affairs officials refusing to marry same sex
   country ban gay marriage underlines the largely East-West split in
   gay and lesbian couples to marry in a civil ceremony.
   In several of these countries, gay marriage had been preceded by civil
   marriage, including Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Greece,
   referendum a proposal to legalise gay marriage.
   to legalise same-sex marriage.
   But most Eastern European countries allow neither gay partnerships nor
   marriages, including Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania and
   In Russia homosexuality was considered a crime up to 1993 and a mental
   promotion of homosexuality among minors.
   West opens to gay adoption
   adopt children, whether within marriage or civil partnerships.
   Other countries, like Finland and Slovenia, allow gay people to adopt
   Further afield, homosexual couples can also marry in Canada since 2005
   South Africa in 2006 became the sole African nation to allow gay
   marriage.
   Read more on:    lgbt  |  homosexuality

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-11.txt>

                       Conservative Case for Gay Marriage
Conservative Case for Gay Marriage
   vote for same-sex marriage in the Minnesota House last week (the state
   might have been writing about the whole marriage movement.
   This month, Rhode Island and Delaware approved gay marriage. In June,
   nearly 30% of the population will live in gay-marriage states.
   The cascade extends beyond marriage. America is rethinking its whole
   relationship with its gay citizens. This month, a poll by ABC News and
   The Washington Post found not only a 55% majority supporting marriage
   gay Boy Scouts and opposed to banning gay Scout leaders. As for NBA
   center Jason Collins’ public announcement that he’s gay, it isn’t even
   To understand why the public is breaking so fast for same-sex marriage,
   There, on the same day that Delaware’s Senate passed marriage equality,
   Now, this is not a man who has done right by marriage. Rather, he used
   job and his marriage. But last week, the voters chose to overlook both
   standard. No matter how hard gays work to be true to our life partners,
   we don’t qualify for marriage. But no matter how shabbily straights
   treat their vows, they qualify not only for marriage but also for
   When millions of Americans see straight people busting up marriages
   while gay people struggle to form them, they draw the obvious, and
   correct, conclusion. America needs more marriages, not fewer. The
   threat to marriage in the USA today comes not from gays’ trying to
   pregnancy than red states do. “If you’re looking for solid marriages,”
   written, “head to Massachusetts, not Alabama.” Why? Gay marriage
   Same-sex marriage is socially conservative in that sense — and in a
   it is also about responsibility and obligation. Marriage joins couples
   community, their kids, their God and millenniums of custom. Gay and
   seeking marriage, gays are asking to join Burke’s mighty stream of
   That is why same-sex marriage is cascading. The public looks at
   marriage equality and sees the greatest social conservative movement of

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-12.txt>

Here are the 27 countries where same-sex marriage is officially legal
   WATCH Here are some of the other countries where same-sex marriage is
   same-sex marriage. Twenty-seven out of 195 countries have passed laws
   allowing gay marriage, according to the Pew Research Center.
   Below is a timeline for the 27 countries where same-sex marriage is
   marriage. The following year, four couples married in the world’s first
   The nation's traditional definition of civil marriage was changed to
   One year after legalizing same-sex marriage, the country’s Lutheran
   church board initiated a petition to permit same-sex marriages. [Pew
   marriage. [Pew Research Center]
   Six years after Portugal's parliament legalized same-sex marriage, the
   country granted gay couples the right to adopt. [Reuters]
   Iceland legalized same-sex marriage in a unanimous vote. [Pew Research
   Prior to legalizing same-sex marriage, Denmark was the first country to
   same-sex marriage in 2013. [National LGBT Chamber of Commerce]
   Over 3,700 marriages took place in 2013 after same-sex marriage was
   The measure to legalize same-sex marriage in New Zealand won approval
   The new law was the first major reform of the country’s marriage laws
   legalize same-sex marriage, the Scottish Episcopal Church became the
   UK's first major Christian church to perform same-sex marriages. [BBC]
   marriage.
   Ireland was the first country to legalize same-sex marriage through a
   The bill to call for the legislation of same-sex marriage started out
   The country's legislators passed a bill to legalize same-sex marriage
   PHOTO: USA same-sex marriage gfx ABC News
   USA same-sex marriage gfx
   Parliament’s vote to legalize same-sex marriage was nearly unanimous,
All of the countries where same-sex marriage is legal
Pence defends wife's teaching job at school that bars gays

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-13.txt>

Taiwan group fighting gay marriage legislation seeks referendum on issue
   Boxes filled with anti-gay marriage petition signatures are placed in
   Boxes filled with anti-gay marriage petition signatures are placed in
   Taiwan's top court ruled in May 2017 that preventing same-sex marriage
   The anti-gay marriage Happiness of the Next Generation Alliance
   enacted for civil unions between same-sex couples - a move that gay
   marriage campaigners say would be discriminatory and offer fewer legal
   gay marriage, but her majority government has been accused of dragging
Taiwan still divided on gay marriage, says President Tsai Ing-wen
Taiwan holds Asia's largest pride parade; waits for same-sex marriage to be
   the other redefines the civil code's definition of marriage as being
   Gay rights campaigners are also rushing to gather signatures for their
   same-sex marriage in the civil code.
     * HOMOSEXUALITY/LGBT

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-14.txt>

Lawmaker’s ‘no’ to gay marriage as sexuality is a ‘matter of taste’
   expressed on an Internet TV show that gay marriage should not be
   difficult to accept same-sex marriage under Article 24 of the
   Constitution that states ‘marriage shall be based only on the mutual
   wrote, “I did not intend to discriminate against LGBT (lesbian, gay,
   legalization of same-sex marriage.
   believes “there is no need to legalize same-sex marriage” because
   choosing whether to love someone of the same sex or opposite sex is a
   He then elaborated on the reason he believes only heterosexual marriage
   lawmaker, drew criticism for her anti-gay remarks in a magazine article
   she wrote. Sugita said gay couples are “unproductive” because they

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-16.txt>

Gay marriage
Fifteen years after landmark gay rights case, same-sex couples in Texas still
   On June 26, 2003, the Supreme Court struck down a Texas law banning gay
   sodomy — a watershed moment for gay rights. But 15 years later,
   [TxTrib-GayWedding_017.JPG] [TxTrib-GayWedding_017.JPG]
Houston looks to Supreme Court to resolve same-sex marriage benefits fight
   ruling legalizing same-sex marriage does not fully address the right to
   marriage benefits.
   [TxTrib-GayWedding_014.JPG] [TxTrib-GayWedding_014.JPG]
Court throws out ruling that favored same-sex marriage benefits
   said spouses of gay and lesbian public employees are entitled to
   government-subsidized same-sex marriage benefits.
Texas on the hook for $600,000 after conceding same-sex marriage case
   $600,000 in legal fees to two same-sex marriage couples who sued Texas
   over its now-defunct same-sex marriage ban.
   [TxTrib-GayWedding_017.JPG] [TxTrib-GayWedding_017.JPG]
marriage
   to same-sex marriages can recuse themselves from signing marriage
   [TxTrib-GayWedding_014.JPG] [TxTrib-GayWedding_014.JPG]
After GOP appeal, Texas Supreme Court agrees to take up same-sex marriage
   [TxTrib-GayWedding_014.JPG] [TxTrib-GayWedding_014.JPG]
A Year Later, Texas Gay Marriage Debate Shifts
   Hundreds of gay couples across Texas are reaching their one-year
   wedding anniversaries, but resistance to same-sex marriage hasn’t gone
   in a gay nightclub in Orlando, and he can only blame himself. His
   [marriage.png] [marriage.png]
Court Ends Challenge to State's First Legal Same-Sex Marriage License
   Paxton’s effort to undo the union of the first gay couple to legally
   protections for religious opponents of same-sex marriage.
   popular news stories of 2015, on everything from gay marriage to Jade
A New Governor, Gay Weddings and Gun Rallies: 2015 in Photos
   Months after the Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage, some Texas

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-17.txt>

Cuba's draft constitution opens path to gay marriage
   to same-sex marriage, a government official said on Saturday, which
   would make the country that once persecuted homosexuals an unlikely
   leader in lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights.
   A cat climbs the stairs as a placard opposing gay marriage is seen on a
   In the early years of Fidel Castro’s 1959 revolution, many homosexuals
   “The possibility of marriage between two people strengthens our
   adding that further legal changes would be needed to allow for gay
   marriage.
   modification has been approved, we must ensure that same sex marriage
   Grassroots campaigns for and against gay marriage have made it the most
   month declaring marriage “exclusively the union of a man and a woman,
   Churches also plastered neighborhoods with anti gay marriage posters

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-18.txt>

Gay Marriage vs. American Marriage
Gay Marriage vs. American Marriage
   The gay advocates’ civil rights argument forgets what the Founders
   thought marriage is for.
   These days everyone has a strong opinion about marriage, but no one
   two eminent anthropologists writing recently in support of gay marriage
   approved forms of marriage," is the institution too varied to fit into
   marriage; some accept polygamy. In many cultures, the wife moves into
   allow divorce but not remarriage; some allow divorce if husbands fork
   This protean diversity is central to today's marriage debate. If
   marriage is, as these examples suggest, an eminently malleable social
   by letting gays marry each other?
   But beneath all the diversity, marriage has always had a fundamental,
   universal core that makes gay marriage a non sequitur: it has always
   culture has produced a specifically American ideal of marriage that is
   in our history, politics, economics, and culture. Advocates for gay
   marriage cite the historical evolution of that ideal—which we might
   call republican marriage—to bolster their case, arguing that gay unions
   the subject of marriage as any of Fox TV's bachelorettes. Given the
   of marriage the true origin of society must be traced," James Wilson, a
   what kind of marriage would best live up to the principles of the new
   The Founders did not sketch their ideas about marriage on a blank
   discussions. Given that marriage was originally a religious sacrament,
   addition, they understood that marriage is a contract, regulated by the
   those of their children. Therefore, marriage is intrinsically a
   marriage in a way congruent with emerging ideals of individual liberty
   and democratic equality. In the old world, marriage was originally a
   increasingly emphasizing marriage as a love-match between two
   Europe, where arranged marriages remained the norm.
   marriage would reflect American principles of liberty and
   Marriage and the Nation, the source for much of the history of marriage
   free from arranged marriages and the authoritarian fathers who
   marriage based on individual choice would promote trust and equality
   Most important, republican marriage provided the edifice in which
   of the new political order. If republican marriage celebrated
   debate over gay marriage, but advocates certainly invoke fragments of
   current predicament of gays with that of other minorities, particularly
   African Americans, in the days before they had full rights to marriage.
   History, they argue, shows us that marriage is a civil right that has
   expanded over time to include previously marginalized groups; gays now
   marriage has been in a state of change," a group of historians of
   marriage, family, and the law asserted in an amicus brief in the case
   that legalized gay marriage in the state. Gay marriage "represents the
   logical next step in this court's long tradition of reforming marriage
   "tradition of reforming marriage" from the multifaceted tradition of
   republican marriage not only starts history around 1968, but it also
   is in the marriage business at all.
   While gays often invoke the black/homosexual analogy to assert in a
   general way that anti-homosexual sentiments are as vicious and
   irrational as racism, gay-marriage advocates use the comparison much
   this: denying homosexuals the right to marry whom they wish is little
   finally ruled that state bans on such intermarriage were a violation of
   the Fourteenth Amendment's equal-protection clause. "Marriage is one of
   sophisticated architecture of republican marriage: that marriage is a
   logically inescapable, gay-marriage advocates conclude, that the same
   goes for homosexuals.
   life-and-death—interest in marriage as the environment in which the
   An earlier chapter in the history of African-American marriage
   against slaves entering into marriage contracts. These abolitionists
   created the Freedmen's Bureau, in part as a federal marriage
   of blacks to enter into contracts of all sorts, including marriage;
   they believed, above all, that American-style marriage would help
   analogy between black marriage and gay marriage that the advocates
   In fact, gay-marriage proponents generally treat children as a
   distraction from the state's interest in marriage rather than crucial
   has definitively separated child rearing and marriage, demonstrating
   conclusively that marriage is a changing and elastic institution that
   can easily accommodate homosexuals. "When a third of children are born
   Jonathan Rauch, the author of the recent Gay Marriage, has opined, "the
   debate is over about detaching marriage from parenthood—indeed was over
   that marriage has anything to do with children, he says, "fails
   haphazardly—Americans closed "the debate . . . about detaching marriage
   from parenthood." For most of American history, republican marriage
   the Revolutionary era, marriage theorists understood that a nation that
   This shift was a threat to republican marriage for reasons that went
   the American idea of marriage. As Americans crowded into the divorce
   Founders. Marriage was becoming a minimalist institution; people now
   between child rearing and marriage—both necessary precursors for gay
   marriage—led inexorably to a further development. If marriage was
   state's interest in protecting marriage as the institution in which
   safeguarding marriage wasn't their job any more. In case after case,
   judges decreed that marriage was an ordinary civil contract and that
   marriage and child rearing were legally unconnected. Never mind that
   that marriage laws centered largely on the relationship between
   tradition of reforming marriage" in America that includes giving wives
   about marriage and child rearing represented a hard turn away from the
   ideals of the self-governing family. Republican marriage had been a
   marriage to tie parents and their offspring together, but only the
   American form of marriage strove to allow individuals the greatest
   marriage was not part of the musty past; it was a bitter and lived
   informed their model of the perfect, traditional marriage."
   people tend to be more in favor of gay marriage than their parents and
   their sympathy for gays' hunger for ’til-death-do-us-part commitment;
   after all, that's what's they want, too. Odd as it sounds, gays and the
   touchingly of marriage as a solemn, even spiritual, union, a momentous
   earnest devotion to marriage and their interest in the civil rights
   you have a generation for which gay marriage seems merely
   are inclined to see the fight for gay marriage, is actually at war with
   their longing for a more stable domestic life. Gay marriage gives an
   in the first place: it reinforces the definition of marriage as a
   that has nothing to do with children. That's no way for marriage to get
   its gravitas back. It is marriage's dedication to child rearing, to a
   has the potential to discipline adult passion. "The gravity of marriage
   There is another reason to be skeptical about the idea that gay
   marriage is another step forward in an unbroken history of social
   progress. In fact, the fraying of the marriage–child rearing bond over
   career, and marriage than those who grew up in intact two-parent
   Founders' vision. The results are in: if we forget that marriage is
   Alongside the familiar anthropological truth that marriage comes in
   kinds of marriage—not to mention non-marriage—mold different kinds of
   citizens. The evolution of marriage over the past 40 years has
   undermined that vision. Gay marriage threatens to sabotage it even

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-19.txt>

Two in Three Americans Support Same-Sex Marriage
Two in Three Americans Support Same-Sex Marriage
   Two in Three Americans Support Same-Sex Marriage
     * 67% of U.S. adults say gay marriages should be legally valid
     * New high in support for gay marriage in Gallup's trend
   marriage -- the highest level in Gallup's trend. In each of the past
   increases among Americans who say same-sex marriages should be legally
   supported gay marriage when Gallup first polled on the question in
   GayMarriageSupport
   lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) adults getting married in
   partner, and the visibility of these marriages may be playing a role in
   Gay marriage became legal nationwide in 2015 upon the Supreme Court's
   state, Massachusetts, had legalized gay marriage. In the years leading
   against same-sex marriage.
   Democrats Reach New High in Support for Same-Sex Marriage
   Democrats remain the most likely to support gay marriage among party
   marriages is the highest level of support recorded for this group.
   recognition of gay marriages -- less than half of the GOP favors legal
   gay marriage (44%). The latest figure for Republicans' views on gay
   marriage is similar to the 47% recorded in 2017. The GOP has seen
   gay marriage over the years, but has yet to reach majority support.
   Democrats. Currently, 71% of independents say gay marriages should be
   GayMarriageSupport_political
   no formidable opposition trying to undo gay marriage's legality, it's
   The trend toward increased public support for same-sex marriage could
   who remain mostly opposed to legally recognized same-sex marriages.
   In addition to the general trend toward greater acceptance of gay
   marriage, the same-sex weddings taking place across the country may be
   years -- and even longer in certain states -- some opponents to gay
   marriage may be rethinking their previous opposition.
   largely mirrored its trend on legalization of gay marriage. On both
   USA All Gallup Headlines LGBT Marriage Moral Issues Politics Social and
   The percentage of American adults identifying as lesbian, gay, bisexual
Majority Remains Satisfied With Acceptance of Gays in U.S.
   A majority of Americans remain satisfied with the acceptance of gays

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-20.txt>

Jordan Peterson's Views on Gay Marriage and Child-Rearing Are Dumb
   appropriately gay themed this morning, I thought it might be nice to
   briefly review Mr. Peterson's ideas about gay marriage and gay
   posted in early May of 2018, and it's called "Thoughts on Gay People
   Raising Children." When asked what he thinks about gay people raising
   that the gay couple "accept the fact that it's necessary for kids to
   And you gay mens can raise babies all you want, but only if one of you
   Peterson might be worried about the fates of kids raised by gay
   raised by gay parents faced any adverse effects, but "all four took
   conclusion that kids are just as well off being raised by gay parents
   But this question of gay couples raising kids doesn't happen in a
   foster care system. We need gay couples to adopt children if we want to
   Now, should gay people even get married in the first place? Though it
   seriously, then it seems to me that it's a means whereby gay people
   not limited to gay people," he says.
   makes a little turn. He describes gay marriage as a wedge issue, and
   says it isn't obvious to him that "that legalizing gay marriage has
   marriage, which has technically and historically been a union between a
   sees gay marriage not as a fight for equal treatment under the law, not
   in love as straight people in marriages, but as one more milestone in a
   people adopted Peterson's ideas on LGBTQ issues, gay couples wouldn't

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-21.txt>

Same-Sex Marriage
Majority of U.S. Muslims Now Back Same-Sex Marriage
Gay Teacher Fired After Wedding
Bermuda May Ban Same-Sex Marriage Again
   A bill would replace same-sex marriage with a domestic partnership
Same-Sex Couples Denied Full Marriage Benefits in Texas
   11_15_Same_Sex_Marriage_Australia
Where Is Same-Sex Marriage Legal?
   favor of same-sex marriage.
Will Australia Embrace Same-Sex Marriage?
Mormon Church Still Opposes Same-Sex Marriage
   The Supreme Court may have declared same-sex marriage a right
   German Same-Sex marriage
   Same-Sex Marriage U.S.
More Americans Than Ever Back Same-Sex Marriage
   Most Americans now support equal rights to marriage, and attitudes have
Russian Church Leader Compares Gay Marriage to Nazi Law
   authority, has spoken out against same-sex marriage.
   same_sex_marriage_0515
Same-Sex Marriage Support at Highest-Ever Level: Poll
Same-Sex Marriage Endorsed by German Parties
Donald Trump Talks Same-Sex Marriage And Abortion Law
Australians Rally for Same-Sex Marriage, Against Vote
   Backers want Parliament to authorize same-sex marriage instead of
   NewsweekGaysUnderFire
   24 years after being featured on Newsweek’s 1992 “Gays Under Fire”
Top Alabama Judge Orders Halt to Gay Marriage Licenses
   Roy Moore said a ban on Alabama same-sex marriage licenses remains in
Kim Davis Denied Me a Marriage License. And I’m Not Gay
Kim Davis: 'I Failed So Miserably at Marriage'
   1220_slovenia_same_sex_marriage
Same-Sex Marriage Referendum Fails in Slovenia
   1117_First_gay_couple_marries_Ireland_01
First Gay Couple Marries in Ireland Six Months After Referendum Vote
   Richard Dowling and Cormac Gollogly are the first gay couple to marry
Kentucky Clerk Kim Davis Back in Office, but Defiant on Gay Marriage Licenses
   The county clerk was jailed for refusing to issue marriage licenses to
   North_Carolina_Gay_Marriage
Magistrates in a North Carolina County Refuse to Perform Same-Sex Marriages
   marriages after four refused to do so.
   09_10_samesexmarriage_01
Gay Marriage and Religious Rights: Say Nada to FADA
   A bill intended to protect those offended by gay marriage could open a

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-22.txt>

Same Sex Marriage Laws
Same-Sex Marriage Laws
     * State Same-Sex Marriage Laws Map
   ruled that states cannot ban same-sex marriage, thereby requiring all
   states to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples.
   defining whether marriage is limited to relationships between a man and
   marriage, 31 states had either constitutional or statutory provisions
   that explicitly defined marriage as between a man and a woman and just
   19 states and the District of Columbia allowed same-sex marriage. Now,
   at least 37 states and D.C. recognize same-sex marriage.
   The status of same-sex marriage remains in flux. All states have some
   of Appeals struck down same-sex marriage bans in Nevada and Idaho.
   marriage licenses in Kansas. A South Carolina state Supreme Court and
   marriage bans. On Jan. 6, 2015, the state of Florida will begin
   allowing same-sex marriage after a district judge ruled the ban
   Alabama began issuing same-sex marriage licenses after a U.S. district
   these changes, at least 37 states and D.C. recognize same-sex marriage.
   marriage.
   same-sex marriage. On Nov. 6, 2014, a federal appeals court judge in
   the 6th U.S. Circuit upheld four states' bans on same-sex marriage. The
   marriage and whether states may refuse to recognize same-sex marriages
   CAPTION: States that Allowed Same-Sex Marriage Prior to 2015 U.S.
State Same-Sex Marriage Laws Prior to 2015 U.S. Supreme Court Ruling:
   The public national discussion around same-sex marriage first began in
   clearly define marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman and
   Before 1993, seven states had laws that defined marriage as a
   raised the possibility that states could recognize same sex marriage,
   defining marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman,
   constitutional provision prohibiting same-sex marriage. Nebraska
   adopted a constitutional provision limiting marriage to relationships
   constitutional provisions limiting marriage to opposite-sex couples by
   legalizing marriage for same-sex couples or by establishing an
   marriage as the "legally recognized union of one man and one woman,"
   barring same-sex couples from civil marriage was unconstitutional. The
   from civil marriage but would create civil unions as a parallel
   the state of Massachusetts began issuing marriage licenses to same-sex
   to redefine marriage to include same-sex couples or to establish a
   couples the same rights as opposite-sex marriage couples.  The New
   and same-sex marriages were performed in California for a short period
   amendment that defined marriage as a relationship between a man and a
   woman. It passed in November 2008, again banning same-sex marriage in
   marriages violated the equal protection provisions of the U.S.
   allow same-sex marriages to be performed) was delayed until the case
   reinstated the right to marriage for same-sex couples in California.
   same-sex marriage was in violation of the equal protection clause in
   same-sex marriage. In 2009, the Connecticut General Assembly passed a
   statute allowing same sex marriage and ending civil unions.
   against same-sex marriage was unconstitutional. Iowa began performing
   same-sex marriages in June 2009.
   marriage. Governor Douglas vetoed the bill, but the veto was overridden
   same-sex marriage.
   in May 2009 allowing same sex marriage. Opponents, however,
   ballot. Same-sex marriages were delayed, pending the ballot outcome.
   New Hampshire also passed same-sex marriage legislation in June 2009,
   bringing the total number of states that allowed same-sex marriage to
   marriage law, subject to a congressional review period. The law took
   same-sex marriage. Governor Andrew Cuomo immediately signed the
   marriages available in New York in late July 2011.
   establishing same-sex marriage. In June 2012 opponents gathered enough
   the law and same-sex marriages began on Dec. 6, 2012.
   The New Jersey Legislature passed a same-sex marriage bill in February
   October 2013 that the state must recognize same-sex marriage, New
   same-sex marriage to answer some questions left unanswered in the court
   Maryland passed a same-sex marriage bill in February 2012 that was
   same-sex marriage. It is the first time voters had been asked to
   legalize same-sex marriage rather than prohibit it. The measure went
   to uphold the same-sex marriage laws marked a watershed. They were the
   first instances of public votes to establish same-sex marriage. On the
   of same-sex marriages. Those four votes reversed a long trend of public
   votes against same sex marriage. Previously, voters in 32 states had
   consistently voted to limit same-sex marriage. Thirty states had
   enacted constitutional provisions to define marriage as a relationship
   between a man and a woman and prohibit same-sex marriages. Between 1998
   restrictions on same-sex marriage. (In 2006, Arizona voters rejected a
   constitutional provision prohibiting same-sex marriage and then
   Legislative actions supporting same sex-marriage continued in
   2013. Rhode Island passed same-sex marriage legislation and Governor
   civil unions to marriage and recognizes civil unions and same sex
   marriage from other jurisdictions. The law went into effect Aug. 1,
   Delaware passed same-sex marriage legislation and Governor Markell
   to marriage and recognizes civil unions and same sex marriage from
   Minnesota passed a law allowing same-sex marriage in May 2013. The law
   8, thus allowing same sex marriage in California. Amid some confusion
   about timing, same-sex marriages began shortly after the decision.
   DOMA law that limited over one thousand federal benefits to marriages
   defining marriage and required the federal government to recognize
   same-sex marriages granted under state law. Federal agencies are now
   married in a state that allows same-sex marriage but who now live in a
   state that does not allow same-sex marriage.
   had. The federal government did not recognize civil unions as marriages
   was unlikely to win on appeal. The order to allow same-sex marriages
   drop its appeal, making same sex marriages legal in New Jersey.
   same-sex marriage legislation. The Senate passed the initial bill on
   marriage or celebration of the marriage if it violates their religious
   Quinn signed the legislation on Nov. 20.  Same-sex marriages were set
   or allowing same-sex marriage. Some county officials had issued
   marriage licenses to same-sex couples in previous years. After the U.S.
          + Same Sex Marriage

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-24.txt>

     * Gay marriage
France marks five-year anniversary of same-sex marriage
   As couples in France mark five years on Monday since same-sex marriage
   France’s government voted to pass a bill legalising same-sex marriage
   and against the legislation. The anti-gay marriage movement, Manif Pour
   And now, five years later, who really questions marriage equality and
   “The law on marriage equality… recognised that a same-sex relationship
   Although opposition to same-sex marriage appears to have waned, the
   “When I met women who first thanked me for legalising same-sex marriage

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-25.txt>

   [index@promo&td_device=desktop&td_part=css&td_section=lifestyle+gay-mar
   [index@promo&td_device=desktop&td_part=top&td_section=lifestyle+gay-mar
     * gay marriage
Same-sex marriage is now legal in Australia
   THE final step to make same-sex marriage legal in Australia has now
   the assent of the Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious
   SAME-SEX marriage is officially legal in Australia after the
   need to lodge a Notice of Intended Marriage one month before their
   It's official! Marriage Equality has been assent into law by the
   Governor General. Same-sex marriages can take place in Australia from
   Celebrations after the Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious
   Celebrations after the Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious
   Mr Turnbull described the postal survey on same-sex marriage as a
   traditional marriage, he insisted.
   “People that think gay people making a commitment is a threat to her
   marriage fails to realise that the real threat is lack of commitment,”
   the assent of the Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious
   the assent of the Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious
   [index@promo&td_device=desktop&td_part=bottom&td_section=lifestyle+gay-
   marriage]
MORE IN gay marriage
The consequences of gay marriage
Secret meeting of marriage vote
New twist in Bert and Ernie gay claim
   [more-in&td_module-header=gay+marriage&td_storyID=070e3df2531bdab8663fd
   [index@promo&td_device=desktop&td_part=js&td_section=lifestyle+gay-marr
   iage] [gay-marriage] [router@2.0.0&td_display=desktop&t_trouter=true]

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-26.txt>

                     Ireland says Yes to same-sex marriage
   same-sex marriage referendum Thousands gather in Dublin Castle to hear
   the declaration of the same-sex marriage referendum
   marriage by a popular vote.
   over 51% of voters there reject the marriage referendum proposal.
   More people voted in the same-sex marriage referendum than in any other
   Mr Gilmore stood over his comments made in mid-2012, that gay marriage
   brought in this summer to make same sex-marriage a reality.
   Senator David Norris, one of the key figures in having homosexual
   "I believe that by the end of today gay people will be equal in this
   A number of campaigners against same-sex marriage have offered

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-27.txt>

N.J. legalizes gay marriage after decade-long push
   In first minutes of same-sex marriage in NJ, nine Newark couples tie
   Gallery: In first minutes of same-sex marriage in NJ, nine Newark
   TRENTON — Same-sex marriage became law in New Jersey on Monday after
   The Republican governor, who vetoed a gay marriage bill last year,
   clearing the way for full marriage rights for thousands of gay couples
   of a decade-long push for same-sex marriage rights in a state that
   Christie’s request to delay the first gay marriages while he appealed a
   New Jersey thus became the 14th state to allow gay marriage — and the
   decision that struck down the Defense of Marriage Act.
   As word spread, gay couples, civil-rights advocates and Democratic
   while same-sex marriage opponents decried Christie’s decision to give
   acknowledged that "same-sex marriage is the law" on Monday. And he
   decision denying the request to delay Monday’s start date for gay
   marriages.
   arguments for opposing gay marriage, with Rabner concluding: "Same-sex
   of the New Jersey constitution and, therefore, same-sex marriage is the
   gay couples to marry in New Jersey. With his appeal withdrawn, that
   Christie’s opposition to same-sex marriage became a major campaign
   "Despite Governor Christie’s efforts to block the rights of gays and
   is a day for same sex couples to actually rejoice, realizing that their
   Protect Marriage, regretted that Christie ended the case before his
   group could file briefs showing "the sociological basis for marriage,
   marriage after the U.S. Supreme Court decision, which extended hundreds
   in states that provided them "lawful marriages." As a state with civil
   • N.J. Supreme Court refuses to block same-sex marriage; first wedding
   • N.J. Supreme Court: 'No public interest' in blocking gay marriage
   • A timeline of gay marriage in New Jersey

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-28.txt>

Growing Public Support for Same-Sex Marriage
   couples should be allowed to legally marry, public support for gay
   marriage continues to grow. Polls in 2011 by the Pew Research Center
   gays and lesbians to marry legally; about the same percentage (45%)
   opposes gay marriage. That marked the first time in 15 years of polling
   Just two years earlier, in 2009, a clear majority (54%) opposed gay
   marriage while just 37% favored it. In 1996, when Pew Research first
   asked about letting gay couples marry legally, almost two-thirds of the
   differences over gay marriage. Since the 1990s, however, support has
   change. Millennials (born after 1980) are the most in favor of gay
   marriage (61% favor), followed by Gen Xers, born between 1965 and 1980
   A majority of Democrats (56%) favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry
   Republicans favor same-sex marriage while 66% are opposed. In recent
   years, support for gay marriage has risen sharply among Democrats and
   Both whites and blacks have become more likely to favor marriage rights
   for gays in recent years, but the increase in support has been larger
   favored allowing gay and lesbian couples to marry legally.
   (For more on attitudes of religious groups toward gay marriage, see
   “Religion and Attitudes toward Same-Sex Marriage,” Pew Forum on
Most Say Homosexuality Should Be Accepted
   Americans saying that homosexuality should be accepted by society. In
   March 2011, 58% said that homosexuality should be accepted by society,
   more said homosexuality should be accepted by society than said it
   In 2006, 51% said homosexuality should be accepted, while 38% said it
   homosexuality again increased, to 58%.
     * Most Say Homosexuality Should Be Accepted
Support for Same-Sex Marriage at Record High, but Key Segments Remain Opposed
Public Divided over Same-Sex Marriage Rulings
Final Court Rulings: Public Equally Interested in Voting Rights, Gay Marriage
Changing Attitudes on Same Sex Marriage, Gay Friends and Family
     * Gay Marriage and Homosexuality

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-29.txt>

 Colorado Elects First Openly Gay Governor in the U.S. - Rewriting the State's
   Latest: An Election Night of Firsts: From Colorado’s Gay and Jewish
   elect the country’s first openly gay male governor, Jared Polis.
   allowing “homosexual, lesbian or bisexual orientation, conduct,
   Same-sex marriage has been legally recognized in Colorado since October
   on same-sex marriage, which was enacted in 2006 with 56 percent of
   The federal ban on gay marriage, the Defense of Marriage Act, was
   U.S. Constitution to ban gay marriage. Allard’s bill said: “Marriage in
   construed to require that marriage or the legal incidents thereof be
   Representatives passed, for the third time, a ban on gay “conversion
   cake to celebrate the marriage of a same-sex couple.
   gay Episcopal bishop and a family friend of the Shepards.

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-30.txt>

   #Marriage latest posts Marriage latest comments Marriage » Feed
   Marriage » Comments Feed The Legal Rights of Civil Unions and Gay
   Marriages What are the Prenuptial Laws of Other Countries alternate
   Marriage
          + Marriage Certificate
          + Name Change After Marriage
     * Marriage Laws
          + Annulment of Marriage
          + Defense of Marriage Act
          + Common Law Marriage
          + Common Law Marriage in Texas
     * Marriage License
          + Marriage License
          + Marriage License Requirements
     * Marriage Records
     * Marriage Counseling
          + Marriage Counseling Questions
          + Save My Marriage
          + Marriage Certificate
          + Name Change after Marriage
     * Marriage License
          + Marriage License Requirements
     * Marriage
          + Marriage Vows
          + Marriage Statistics
          + Definition of Marriage
     * Marriage Records
          + Free Marriage Records
     * Marriage Counseling
          + Save My Marriage
          + Marriage Counseling Questions
     * Common Law Marriage
          + Defense of Marriage Act
          + Common Law Marriage in Texas
          + Annulment of Marriage
          + Common Law Marriage
          + Common Law Marriage in Texas
     * Gay Marriage
          + Same Sex Marriage
          + Gay Marriage States
          + Gay Marriage Facts
          + Gay Marriage Rights
Issues About Same Sex Marriage
Issues About Same Sex Marriage
   Issues About Same Sex Marriage
   Same sex marriage rights have been a very controversial issue in both
   political and religious circles. While same sex marriage is seen in
   early history, the debate for gay marriage rights has become a very
   heated debate. Same sex marriages were first legalized in the
   legally legally recognized same sex marriages.
   In fact, less than ten countries or US states recognize same sex
   marriage. Many religious leaders continue to speak out in staunch
   opposition to conferring marriage rights to same sex couples. In fact
   the Catholic church is still very much opposed to same sex marriages.
   In addition, conservatives are opponents of defining same sex
   relationships as marriages. However, Democrats generally support same
   sex marriages, domestic partnerships or civil unions.
   Many opponents of gay marriage are also against same sex couples
   studies that show detrimental effects on children raised by same sex
   For instance, same sex couples that are not able to wed, are more
   suicidal tendencies.  In contrast, same sex couples that are able to
   The debate about same sex marriage rights, has greatly effected the
   gay marriage or adoption. In fact, politicians often fail to take a
   However, states like Florida have explicitly denied gay adoption
   rights, in part because same sex couples are legally forbidden from
   same sex couples, become productive members of society and suffer no
   ill effects from being raised by same sex couples. In America, around
   recognition of the relationship between same sex couples.
   In general however, many people believe that marriage should continue
   conferred on marriages.  In fact, trends suggest much greater support
   Some states have recently legalized same sex weddings in addition to
   same sex relationships in addition to preventing the passage of
   the LGBT community. In fact, same sex couples have recently been
   explicitly forbid same sex marriage.  It appears that the Federal
   In fact, they will either have to prohibit or allow legal same sex
   marriages, in order to avoid the continued nationwide conflict on the
   themselves. While some states enacted the Defense of Marriage Act,
   others have not explicitly forbidden the legal recognition of same sex
   marriage, but they have also not allowed it as of yet. Politics has a
   lot to do with each state's stance on same sex marriage. Generally,
   well as further laws that prohibit the legal recognition of same sex
   marriage.
     * Are You Out Of the Loop About the Legality of Marriage?
     * The History of Same Sex Marriage
     * The Must Read Guide to Same Sex Marriage
     * Common Law Marriage
     * Gay Marriage
     * Marriage
     * Marriage Ceremony
     * Marriage Counseling
     * Marriage License
     * Other Marriage Related Agreements
     * Putative Marriage
     * Religious Importance of Marriage
     * Same Sex Marriage
       Gay Marriage: Governor Christ Christie Veto Challenged by New
Gay Marriage: Governor Christ Christie Veto Challenged by New Jersey
Marriage Certificate Georgia
Annulment of Marriage in California

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-31.txt>

How Same-Sex Marriage Came to Be
   Fifty years ago, every state criminalized homosexual sex, and even the
   would not hire people who were openly gay or permit them to serve in
   the military. Police routinely raided gay bars. Only a handful of
   gay-rights organizations existed, and their membership was sparse. Most
   Americans would have considered the idea of same-sex marriage
   endorsing such marriages; among those aged 18 to 29, support is as high
   as 70 percent. President Barack Obama has embraced marriage equality.
   fact, in three states—approved same-sex marriage, and in a fourth, they
   How did support for gay marriage grow so quickly—to the point where the
The Pre-Marriage Era
   In the early 1970s, amid a burst of gay activism unleashed by the
   lawsuits demanding marriage licenses. Courts did not take their
   justices would not dignify the gay-marriage claim by asking even a
   Marriage equality was not then a priority of gay activists. Rather,
   electing the nation’s first openly gay public officials. Indeed, most
   gays and lesbians at the time were deeply ambivalent about marriage.
   from rape. Most sex radicals objected to traditional marriage’s
   insistence on monogamy; for them, gay liberation meant sexual
   of their relationships—and even gay marriage. The AIDS epidemic had
   highlighted the vulnerability of gay and lesbian partnerships: nearly
   50,000 people had died of AIDS, two-thirds of them gay men; the median
   age of the deceased was 36. An entire generation of young gay men was
   inheritance. In addition, the many gay and lesbian baby boomers who
   homosexual sex immoral, only 29 percent supported gay adoptions, and
   only 10 percent to 20 percent backed same-sex marriage. Not a single
   jurisdiction in the world had yet embraced marriage equality.
   In 1991, three gay couples in Hawaii challenged the constitutionality
   of laws limiting marriage to a man and woman. No national gay-rights
   couples from marriage was presumptively unconstitutional. The case was
   show a compelling justification for banning gay marriage. In 1996, a
   even in a relatively gay-friendly state, marriage equality was then a
   For the Republican Party in the 1990s, gay marriage was a dream issue
   recognition to gay marriages lawfully performed elsewhere. (Such
   marriages were nonexistent at the time.) One poll showed that 68
   percent of Americans opposed gay marriage. By 2001, 35 states had
   marriage—usually by overwhelming margins.
   Gay marriage also entered the national political arena in 1996. Just
   days before the Republican Party’s Iowa caucuses, antigay activists
   conducted a “marriage protection” rally at which presidential
   candidates denounced the “homosexual agenda,” which was said to be
   “destroying the integrity of the marriage-based family.” A few months
   Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), which provided that no state was
   required to recognize another’s same-sex marriages and that the federal
   traditional definition of marriage discriminated against same-sex
   marriage law to include same-sex couples or of creating a new
   with all of the benefits of marriage.
   their own lawsuit in 2001 demanding marriage equality. In 2003, the
   recognize same-sex marriage.
   state elections, marriage-equality supporters actually gained seats in
   constitutional amendment to define marriage as the union of a man and
   Americans at the time rejected gay marriage by two to one, and
   self-identified gays voted Democratic, yet some of the party’s
   Americans, tended to strongly oppose gay marriage.
   institution of marriage.” Although most congressional Democrats opposed
   definition of marriage on the ballot in 13 states in 2004, hoping to
   make gay marriage more salient in the minds of voters and inspire
   coast-to-coast rejection of gay marriage.” Most of the amendments
   gay marriage to rescue his floundering campaign. State party leaders
   marriage amendment, “limp-wristed” and a “switch hitter,” and reporters
   began asking him if he was gay. On Election Day, a state ballot measure
   barring gay marriage passed by three to one, while Bunning squeaked
   against gay marriage.
   gay marriage a centerpiece of his campaign. Thune pressed Daschle to
   explain his opposition to the federal marriage amendment and warned
   that “the institution of marriage is under attack from extremist
   border in North Dakota, a state marriage amendment passed by 73 percent
   Bush regularly called for passage of the federal marriage amendment
   hailed from Massachusetts, whose judges had decreed gay marriage a
   percent, while the gay-marriage ban passed by 24 percentage points. If
   the marriage amendment mobilized enough conservatives to turn out or
   group most likely to oppose gay marriage—the increase in Bush’s share
   amendments barring same-sex marriage. In 2006-07, high courts in
   rejected gay marriage.
   Despite the fierce political backlash ignited by gay-marriage rulings
   in the 1990s and 2000s, public backing for gay rights continued to
   reported knowing someone gay increased from 25 percent in 1985 to 74
   percent in 2000. Knowing gay people strongly predicts support for gay
   knowing someone gay favored gay marriage or civil unions, versus just
   35 percent of those who reported not knowing any gays.
   Support for allowing gays and lesbians to serve openly in the military
   marriage without the title increased from 23 percent in 1989 to 56
   one network television show had a regularly appearing gay character,
   child to watch a show with gay characters. By mid decade, however, the
   were dealing with gay marriage, and in 1997, Ellen DeGeneres famously
   acceptance of homosexuality.
   As society became more gay-friendly, millions of gays and lesbians
   chose to come out of the closet. And support for gay marriage gradually
   after the Massachusetts ruling, one study showed that opponents of gay
   marriage outnumbered supporters by 29 percentage points; by 2008, that
   Support for gay marriage grew for a second, related reason: young
   to know someone who is openly gay and have grown up in an environment
   that is much more tolerant of homosexuality than that of their parents.
   toward gay marriage.
   Moreover, despite the short-term political backlash it sparked, gay
   marriage litigation has probably advanced the cause of marriage
   the salience of gay marriage, making it an issue subject to much
   The gay-marriage rulings have also affected individuals’ actions and
   preferences. Litigation victories inspired gay activists to file
   lawsuits in additional states. The rulings also led more gay couples to
   want marriage—an institution about which they previously had been
   know they cannot have; the court decisions made gay marriage seem more
   Finally, the gay-marriage rulings created thousands of same-sex married
   differently about marriage equality. The sky did not fall.
Legislated Marriage Equality
   As support for gay marriage grew, high courts in California and
   5 percentage points. (Support for gay marriage in California had grown
   Six months after this bitter defeat, gay marriage took an enormous leap
   Court and three legislatures in New England embraced marriage equality.
   unlike other state court rulings in favor of marriage equality; and it
   to enact gay marriage legislatively, and New Hampshire and Maine
   But that fall, Maine voters vetoed the gay-marriage law by 52.8 percent
   New York and New Jersey, where gay-marriage bills were defeated after
   legislature refused to permit a referendum on a state marriage
   candidates denounced gay marriage; four supported a state
   made the election into a referendum on gay marriage, and the justices
   Elsewhere, gay marriage leapt forward. In 2011, the New York
   Maryland, and New Jersey passed gay-marriage bills, though Governor
   time, American voters endorsed gay marriage, in three states: voters in
   Washington and Maryland ratified marriage-equality bills; Mainers
   approved a gay-marriage initiative (reversing the 2009 outcome). That
   bar gay marriage—becoming only the second state in which voters had
   challenging the constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act and
   deferred to state definitions of marriage; conservative justices who
   with liberal justices who probably support marriage equality to
   to gay marriage, given that only nine states and the District of
   supporting gay rights, one of which explicitly embraces the notion of a
   relevant to American constitutional interpretation, and marriage
   likely be regarded as the Brown v. Board of Education of the gay-rights
   Whether or not the Court deems gay marriage a constitutional right this
   year, the future seems clear. Of late, support for marriage equality
   of people in a majority of states support gay marriage. By 2024, he
   marriage equality. In March 2011, the president of the Southern Baptist
   same-sex marriage…is going to become normalized, legalized, and
   People who believe that gay marriage contravenes God’s will are not
   are diminishing. Moreover, religious conservatives who condemn gay
   marriage will continue to influence Republican politicians who need
   marriage equality is likely to continue for several more years, even
   and the Struggle for Same-Sex Marriage.

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-33.txt>

                            Conditional Marriage
                             California Marriage
                           California Gay Marriage
                         Florida Marriage Amendment
                           Bible and Homosexuality
                       Arguments Against Gay Marriage
                     Arguments Against Same Sex Marriage
                           Bible Sermons Marriage
                       John McCain Marriage Amendment
                     He is against Traditional Marriage
                                Gay Marriage
                            Against Gay Marriage
                         Virginia Marriage Amendment
                        Wisconsin Marriage Amendment
                        Tennessee Marriage Amendment
                      Massachusetts Marriage Amendment
                      South Carolina Marriage Amendment
                           Gay Marriage Amendment
                        Marriage Protection Amendment
                          Idaho Marriage Amendment
                     Article on Gay and Lesbian Marriage
                         Federal Marriage Amendment
                        Biblical Traditional Marriage
                            Traditional Marriage
                     The Bible and No Same Sex Marriage
Anti Gay Marriage Arguments
   The following article is from NoGayMarriage.com. Many other articles on
   sodomite marriage are available at this same website.
Gay Marriage: Why Would It Affect Me?
Ten Arguments Against Same Sex Marriage
   (This is a synopsis of the new book by Dr. James Dobson, Marriage Under
Argument #1. Same Sex Marriage Decays Families
   advent of legally sanctioned gay unions in Scandinavian countries has
   already destroyed the institution of marriage, where half of today's
   addressed the epidemic of homosexuality that was rampant in the ancient
Argument #2. Gay Marriage Will Lead to Polygamy
   The introduction of legalized gay marriages will lead inexorably to
   marriage is not harmful to the culture. Do you see how the game is
   Why will gay marriage set the table for polygamy? Because there is no
   definition of marriage has rested on a bedrock of tradition, legal
   After the introduction of marriage between homosexuals, however, it
   group marriage, or marriage between relatives, or marriage between
   adults and children? How about marriage between a man and his donkey?
   underpinnings for marriage will have been destroyed.
Argument #3. States Will No Longer Protect Marriage
   An even greater objective of the homosexual movement is to end the
   marriages have been redefined, divorces will be obtained instantly,
   and privileges of marriage will accrue to gay and lesbian partners
   With the legalization of homosexual marriage, every public school in
   equivalent of traditional marriage between a man and a woman.
   to homosexuals.
Argument #5. Children Will Be Placed in Gay Households
   family involving one man and one woman over a homosexual couple in
Argument #6. Parents Will Be Reuiqred to Accept Homosexuality in Their
   to rid themselves of bias in favor of traditional marriage, and will
   have to affirm homosexuality in children and teens.
Argument #7. Gay Partners Will Burden the Government Entitlement System
Argument #8. Gay Marriage Will Spread Quickly to Other Countries
   Marriage among homosexuals will spread throughout the world, just as
   how we will handle the issue of homosexuality and marriage. Only two
   countries in the world have authorized gay marriage to date-the
   Instead of providing for a father and mother, the advent of homosexual
   marriage will create millions of motherless children and fatherless
   This reticence on behalf of Christians is deeply troubling. Marriage is
Marriage Duty of the Surviving Brother
No Gay Marriage bring you these Bible verses:
                          If you are Gay Click here
                                    Gay?
                           Gay Marriage Amendment
                          Gay and Lesbian Marriage
                              Marriage Equality
                        Marriage Protection Amendment
                             (Gay Marriage Ban)
                  Click here for state bans on gay marriage
                           (Ban Same Sex Marriage)
                            Ban Same Sex Marriage
                      Christian View Same Sex Marriage
                          Articles on Gay Marriage
                       Article on Homosexual Marriage
                        Bible and Homosexual Marriage
                             Marriage Amendment

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-34.txt>

      MP who backs jailing gay people for life welcomed to Downing Street
   Jovah Kamateeka - who claimed gay marriage will hasten "the end of the
   An MP who has backed jailing gay people for life was welcomed to a
   Uganda's homophobic Anti-Homosexuality Bill.
   Jovah Kamateeka claimed gay marriage will hasten "the end of the world"
   The 2014 law was originally dubbed the "Kill the Gays Bill" due to a
   Despite being watered down, the Bill toughened up anti-gay laws
   allowing life imprisonment for so-called "aggravated homosexuality".
   Uganda's constitutional court eventually struck down the anti-gay law
   Anti-Homosexuality Bill in this House. It was only the courts of law
     * Gay

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-35.txt>

   same-sex marriage, largely due to the work of LGBT activists like
   said. “The fact of being able to access marriage is also personal.”
   marriage. The decision illustrated Latin America’s unlikely leadership
   in the fight for LGBT equal rights. Indeed, the focus on the US gay
   to legalize marriage equality, but it has also enacted some of the most
   While credit has long been given to the US gay rights movement, the
   Since Argentina legalized same-sex marriage in 2010, Colombia, Brazil,
   marriage legal. Other nations, such as Chile and Ecuador, recognize
   civil unions between same-sex couples, though not marriages.These
   institutions have made the legalization of same-sex marriage possible.
   of Guelph who has studied the legalization of same-sex marriage in the
   successfully appealed to citizens to approve same-sex marriage by
   Same-sex couples celebrate their marriages in Mexico.
   halt a range of liberal policies including same-sex marriage and
   industrialization, et cetera, and support for same-sex marriage.”
   criminalized homosexuality like their British colonial counterparts.
   marriage. In Cuba, the same-sex marriage cause has finally taken up by
   slow to same-sex marriage rights are countries in the English-speaking
   criminalized homosexuality like their British colonial counterparts.
   same-sex marriage in 2005, which set an example for its former
   colonies. Meanwhile, same-sex marriage wasn’t legalized in the United
   “Alongside the advance of marriage rights in places like Argentina,
   forefront of these “outlier” nations—where marriage, sadly, still seems
   these “outlier” nations—where marriage, sadly, still seems like a
   for same-sex marriage?”
   organization Acceder says: “It’s important to understand that marriage
   elections when same-sex marriage became a key issue.
   to legalize same-sex marriage.
   target of some type of violence,’” she said. Still, same-sex marriage
   mexico, LGBT, latin america, argentina, marriage equality

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-36.txt>

Latin American human rights court urges same-sex marriage legalization
   on Costa Rica and Latin America to recognize equal marriage, in San
   endorsing a growing push for marriage equality despite opposition from
   Guillermo Solis, who had vowed to increase rights for lesbian, gay,
   allow same-sex marriage. However, that trend is changing and in recent

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-37.txt>

Taiwan still divided on gay marriage, says President Tsai Ing-wen
   gay marriage, but her majority government has been accused of dragging
   gay marriage, but her majority government has been accused of dragging
   Taiwan's top court in May 2017 legalised gay marriage - the first place
   the court ordered that gay marriage automatically become legal anyway.
   "Same-sex marriage is also a reflection of the generational gap. In
   Participants react as they take part in a lesbian, gay, bisexual and
Taiwan holds Asia's largest pride parade; waits for same-sex marriage to be
   comes to gay rights, and it stages the biggest gay pride parade in Asia
   Ms Tsai has openly supported the legalisation of gay marriage, but
   violate the Constitution's guarantees of freedom of marriage and
     * HOMOSEXUALITY/LGBT

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-38.txt>

   Indonesian gay rights advocacy group Gaya Nusantara.
   legalize same-sex marriage or partnerships, and LGBT rights are
     * China's Weibo Site Backtracks on Gay Censorship After Outcry
China's Weibo Site Backtracks on Gay Censorship After Outcry

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-40.txt>

   to become the first place in Asia to legalize gay marriage. (SAM
   Proponents of legalizing same-sex marriage in Taiwan hope other
   when it said Wednesday the law should allow same-sex marriage and told
   becomes Asia’s first place to allow same-sex marriage.
   Authoritarian countries are unlikely to legalize same-sex marriage in
   allow same-sex marriage, if you look at the 20 countries worldwide that
   conservative anyway. Vietnam legalized same-sex marriage in 2015 but
   approve same-sex marriage laws because churches oppose the idea.
   sort that sticks close to the idea of one man, one woman per marriage.
   in Asia with a full-blown same-sex marriage law and someday it might
   2011 repealed a constitutional ban on same-sex marriage, and news

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-41.txt>

India court legalises gay sex in landmark ruling
     * Indian gay sex ruling
   In a historic decision, India's Supreme Court has ruled that gay sex is
   known as section 377, under which gay sex is categorised as an
     * Joy in India as gay sex legalised
     * How previous ruling shocked the gay community
     * Where is gay sex still against the law?
   The ruling effectively allows gay sex among consenting adults in
   have consistently opposed gay sex, it will still be a while before
     homosexuality and abolishing #Section377 is a huge thumbs up for
     in the world that criminalises #homosexuality - thank you for that.
   terms of other rights such as those related to marriage or inheritance.
Where is homosexuality illegal?
   The 2017 report from the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans
   The report said homosexuality could still result in the death penalty
     * Homosexuality in India
     * Indian gay sex ruling
     * Where is gay sex still outlawed?
     * Joy in India after landmark ruling legalises gay sex

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-42.txt>


</fichier>

<fichier: EN-43.txt>

   marriage, in a year of major achievements for LGBT rights in the
   the first country in Asia to make marriage equality a reality, after
   marriage is unconstitutional, and must be amended within two years. But
   progress on enshrining same-sex marriage in law in Taiwan has stalled,
   would send a same-sex marriage bill to the legislature in the current
   marriage applications continues to pile up.
   Lawmaker Jason Hsu, a vocal proponent of marriage equality, said that
   marriage bill will pass until early 2019, as a substantial portion of
   to protest Australian lawmakers’ failure to end the gay marriage ban.
   democracy that still had not legalized gay marriage—finally moved on
   support of gay marriage, but the issue had been held hostage by
   Malcolm Turnbull, himself a supporter of marriage equality, agreed to
   marriage equality, parliament passed a bill legalizing same-sex
   marriage. The first gay marriages took place the same week after two
   partnerships, which ensures that gay couples are entitled to the same
   June. Shibuya and Setagaya wards in Tokyo certified same-sex
   conservative—Japan’s only openly gay lawmaker said that legalizing gay
   marriage on a national level is still years away from becoming
   marriage equality in parliament went viral in Japan in response to
   comments made by a member of Japan’s ruling party who said that gay
   registered same-sex marriages and civil partnerships shall be
   canceled. Given the climate, one prominent gay rights organization
   Japan, qzasia, gay marriage, marriage equality, lgbt rights

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-44.txt>

India's top court decriminalizes gay sex in landmark ruling
   India's top court decriminalizes gay sex.
   India's top court decriminalizes gay sex.
    India's top court decriminalizes gay sex.
   Indian supporters of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT)
   Indian supporters of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT)
India's top court decriminalizes gay sex
Cities celebrate Gay Pride Month
   A &quot;Vote Yes&quot; banner in support of same sex-marriage hangs on
   a street in Sydney on September 5, 2017. Same-sex marriage advocates
   A &quot;Vote Yes&quot; banner in support of same sex-marriage hangs on
   a street in Sydney on September 5, 2017. Same-sex marriage advocates
Australia to vote on same-sex marriage
Gay pride parade obstructed by Turkish police
   ian mckellen amanpour gay rights_00052301.jpg
   ian mckellen amanpour gay rights_00052301.jpg
   to become the first place in Asia to legalise gay marriage. Crowds of
   pro-gay marriage supporters in Taiwan on May 24 cheered, hugged and
   to become the first place in Asia to legalise gay marriage. Crowds of
   pro-gay marriage supporters in Taiwan on May 24 cheered, hugged and
Taiwan moves closer to legalizing gay marriage
Gay men tell of brutality in Chechnya
Trump on SCOTUS: I'm fine with same-sex marriage
   china gay marriage rivers lklv _00002407.jpg
   china gay marriage rivers lklv _00002407.jpg
Chinese court dismisses same-sex marriage lawsuit
   criminalizing consensual gay sex, overturning more than 150 years of
   fraught legal battle for equality in a country where homosexuality
   In 2009, the Delhi High Court ruled that the ban on consensual gay sex
   fraction of the country's population constitute lesbians, gays,
   During the latest hearings, lawyers representing more than a dozen gay
   LGBT Indians gear up for possible U-turn on anti-gay laws
   LGBT Indians gear up for possible U-turn on anti-gay laws
   LGBT Indians gear up for possible U-turn on anti-gay laws
   Janata Party (BJP), described the legalization of gay sex as a "danger
   homosexuality, 30 still have laws based on the original colonial
   Supporters in Mumbai react to the Supreme Court ruling that gay sex is
   Supporters in Mumbai react to the Supreme Court ruling that gay sex is
   Supporters in Mumbai react to the Supreme Court ruling that gay sex is
   sexual health services to gay and transgender persons.

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-45.txt>

Thousands of Chinese activists renew push for same-sex marriage
   Unlike neighboring Taiwan, whose recent decision to give gay couples
   marriage rights gave a boost to the LGBTQ movement across Asia, China
   push for same-sex marriage, making use of a rare window of opportunity
   protections for the gay community.
   gay, bisexual and transgender Chinese have in recent years been openly
   give same-sex couples the right to marry gave a boost to the gay rights
   submit revisions to write the legalization for same-sex marriage into
Most Singaporeans still support law banning gay sex, survey finds
   Sun’s campaign for same-sex marriage legalization, launched last year,
India strikes down law that punished gay sex with 10 years in prison
   legalize same-sex marriage, without success.
   Despite thriving gay scenes in many big cities and growing awareness of
   censoring of gay-themed content during the Eurovision Song Contest in

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-48.txt>

Mapping anti-gay laws in Africa
   Legal rights are diminishing for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender
   It's already illegal to be gay in Uganda. If you're found to have had a
   But Uganda's anti-gay laws have become even harsher.
   In December 2013, the notorious Anti-Homosexuality Bill was passed by
   homosexual sex, and extended punishments to those 'promoting'
   homosexuality.
   criminalised homosexual behavoir, removing a clause that outlawed

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-49.txt>

Detained gay rugby player granted bail
Gay rugby player in persecution fear
Denmark halts aid to Tanzania amid gay row
   Planned payments of $9.8m will be withheld after anti-gay comments by a
Arrests over Zanzibar 'gay wedding'
   A gay man with HIV stands in a clinic in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, 2016
   alleged gay celebration in Zanzibar.
Tanzania: Gay crackdown is not policy
   A gay man with HIV stands in a clinic in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, 2016
   an anti-gay surveillance squad.
Growing up openly gay in Uganda
hool, but no-one actually told her homosexuality was illegal.
'Anti-gay' force launched in Tanzania
   A gay man with HIV stands in a clinic in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, 2016
   The team has been tasked with identifying and arresting gay people on
Nigeria police arrests after 'gay party'
   suspicion of being gay as displays of same-sex affection are banned in
   but officers rounded up 57 people who they say are homosexual.
   Homosexual acts are punishable by up to 14 years in jail in Nigeria –
   Laws were tightened in 2014 when gay marriage and displays of same-sex
   homosexuality. However, arrests are infrequent as homosexual people

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-50.txt>

Why gay marriages should not have been legalised
                        First religious gay marriage
                                gay marriage
                          Gay marriage South Africa
                          First gay marriage on TV
                        First televised gay marriage
                              First gay divorce
                           [bush-gay-marriage.png]
   1) Being gay is not natural. Real South Africans always reject
   2) Gay marriage will encourage people to be gay, in the same way that
   3) Legalizing gay marriage will open the door to all kinds of crazy
   legal standing and can sign a marriage contract.
   4) Straight marriage has been around a long time and hasn't changed at
   5) Straight marriage will be less meaningful if gay marriage were
   allowed; the sanctity of Britney Spears's 55-hour just-for-fun marriage
   6) Straight marriages are valid because they produce children. Gay
   7) Obviously gay parents will raise gay children, since straight
   8) Gay marriage is not supported by religion. In a theocracy like ours,
   10) Gay marriage will change the foundation of society; we could never

</fichier>

