
<fichier: EN-1.txt>

   #ProCon.org Headlines Feed ProCon.org Latest Updates Feed

   [newblue-procon-logo.png]
   UNDERSTAND THE ISSUES.
   UNDERSTAND EACH OTHER.

   (BUTTON) Menu Toggle navigation [procon-newblue-logo-mobile-2.png]
     * HOME
     * GAY MARRIAGE - MENU
          + GAY MARRIAGE - HOME
          + GET STARTED
               o Background of the Issue Top Pro & Con Arguments Top Pro &
                 Con Quotes
          + RECOMMENDED
               o Did You Know? Readers' Comments Video Gallery Gay
                 Marriage around the World Gay Marriage Timeline
                 State-by-State History of Banning and Legalizing Gay
                 Marriage, 1994-2015 Gay Marriage in the US Supreme Court,
                 2015
          + DIG DEEPER
               o Source Biographies Footnotes & Sources Gay Marriage in
                 the US Supreme Court, 2013 Top "Gay-Friendly" and
                 "Gay-Unfriendly" US Companies, 2011 2012 Presidential
                 Candidates' Positions on Gay Marriage US Gay Marriage
                 Polls, 1988-2010 2016 Presidential Candidates' Positions
                 on Gay Marriage
     * ISSUES WE COVER
          + MOST POPULAR
               o Medical Marijuana
               o Gun Control
               o Animal Testing
               o Death Penalty
               o Recreational Marijuana
               o School Uniforms
               o Drinking Age - Lower It?
               o Social Media
               o Euthanasia & Assisted Suicide
               o Illegal Immigration
          + HEALTH & MEDICINE
               o Medical Marijuana
               o Euthanasia & Assisted Suicide
               o Vaccines for Kids
               o Milk - Is It Healthy?
               o Abortion
               o Vegetarianism
               o Obesity a Disease?
               o Obamacare
               o Right to Health Care
               o Prescription Drug Ads
          + EDUCATION
               o School Uniforms
               o Standardized Tests
               o Tablets vs. Textbooks
               o College Education Worth It?
               o Teacher Tenure
               o Student Loan Debt
               o School Vouchers
               o Corporal Punishment
               o Banned Books
               o Homework
          + POLITICS
               o Death Penalty
               o Drinking Age - Lower It?
               o Illegal Immigration
               o Gun Control
               o Recreational Marijuana
               o ACLU - Good for America?
               o Concealed Handguns
               o Sanctuary Cities
               o Under God in the Pledge
          + SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
               o Animal Testing
               o Cell Phones Radiation
               o Alternative Energy vs. Fossil Fuels
               o Climate Change
               o Net Nautrality
               o Police Body Cameras
               o Bottled Water Ban
          + ELECTIONS & PRESIDENTS
               o Felon Voting
               o Ronald Reagan
               o Bill Clinton
               o Voting Machines
               o 2016 Presidential Election
               o Electoral College
               o Lowering the Voting Age to 16
          + WORLD / INTERNATIONAL
               o Israeli-Palestinian Conflict
               o Cuba Embargo
               o Drone Strikes Overseas
          + SEX & GENDER
               o Gay Marriage
               o Prostitution - Legalize It?
               o Born Gay? Origins of Sexual Orientation
          + ENTERTAINMENT & SPORTS
               o Social Media
               o Video Games and Violence
               o Drug Use in Sports
               o Golf - Is It a Sport?
               o Olympics
               o National Anthem Protest
               o Fighting in Hockey
          + ECONOMY & TAXES
               o Minimum Wage
               o Gold Standard
               o Corporate Tax Rate & Jobs
               o Churches and Taxes
               o Social Security Privatization
               o Daylight Savings Time
               o Universal Basic Income
               o Penny - Keep It?
          + YOU MAY ALSO LIKE
               o Watch Our Videos
               o Teachers' Corner
               o Readers' Comments
               o Who Uses ProCon.org?
               o Weekly Tidbits
               o Archived Topics
               o Testimonials
               o Donors & Sponsors
          + GET INVOLVED
               o ProCon.org Events
               o Suggest a Topic
               o Cite This Page
               o Share on Social Media
               o Volunteers / Interns
               o Join
     * ABOUT US
          + ABOUT US
          + HOW WE WORK
          + WATCH OUR VIDEOS
          + FAQS
          + METRICS
          + EVENTS
          + TRAFFIC
          + TESTIMONIALS
          + JOIN
          + DONORS & SPONSORS
          + CONTACT US
     * TEACHERS' CORNER

     * HOME
     * |
     * FAQS
     * |
     * METRICS
     * |
     * EVENTS
     * |
     * TRAFFIC
     * |
     * TESTIMONIALS
     * |
     * DONORS & SPONSORS
     * |
     * CONTACT US

     * ISSUES
       WE COVER
          + Topics A-Z

Topics A-Z
            Abortion
            ACLU - Good or Bad?
            Alternative Energy vs. Fossil Fuels
            Animal Testing
            Banned Books
            Big Three Auto Bailout
            Born Gay? Origins of Sexual Orientation
            Bottled Water Ban
            Cell Phone Radiation
            Churches and Taxes
            Climate Change
            College Education Worth It?
            College Football Playoffs
            Concealed Handguns
            Corporal Punishment
            Corporate Tax Rate & Jobs
            Cuba Embargo
            D.A.R.E. - Good or Bad?
            Daylight Savings Time
            Death Penalty
            Drinking Age - Lower It?
            Drone Strikes Overseas
            Drug Use in Sports
            Electoral College
            Euthanasia & Assisted Suicide
            Felon Voting
            Fighting in Hockey
            Gay Marriage
            Gold Standard
            Golf - Is It a Sport?
            Gun Control
            Homework
            Illegal Immigration
            Insider Trading by Congress
            Israeli-Palestinian Conflict
            Medical Marijuana
            Milk - Is It Healthy?
            Minimum Wage
            National Anthem Protests
            Net Neutrality
            Obamacare
            Obesity a Disease?
            Olympics
            Police Body Cameras
            Penny - Keep It?
            Prescription Drug Ads Good?
            President Bill Clinton
            President Ronald Reagan
            Presidential Election, 2008
            Presidential Election, 2012
            Presidential Election, 2016
            Prostitution - Legalize?
            Recreational Marijuana
            Right to Health Care?
            Sanctuary Cities
            Santa Monica Local Elections, 2014
            School Uniforms
            School Vouchers
            Social Media
            Social Security Privatization
            Standardized Tests
            Student Loan Debt
            Tablets vs. Textbooks
            Teacher Tenure
            Under God in the Pledge
            Universal Basic Income
            US-Iraq War
            Vaccines for Kids
            Vegetarianism
            Video Games and Violence
            Voting Age
            Voting Machines
            WTC Muslim Center
          + Popular

Most Popular
            Medical Marijuana - Should Marijuana Be a Medical Option?
            Gun Control - Should More Gun Control Laws Be Enacted?
            Animal Testing - Should Animals Be Used for Scientific or
            Commercial Testing?
            Death Penalty - Should the Death Penalty Be Allowed?
            Recreational Marijuana - Should Recreational Marijuana Be
            Legal?
            School Uniforms - Should Students Have to Wear School
            Uniforms?
            Drinking Age - Should the Drinking Age Be Lowered from 21 to a
            Younger Age?
            Social Media - Are Social Networking Sites Good for Our
            Society?
            Euthanasia & Assisted Suicide - Should Euthanasia or
            Physician-Assisted Suicide Be Legal?
            Illegal Immigration - What Are the Solutions to Illegal
            Immigration in America?
          + Health & Medicine

Health & Medicine
            Medical Marijuana - Should Marijuana Be a Medical Option?
            Euthanasia & Assisted Suicide - Should Euthanasia or
            Physician-Assisted Suicide Be Legal?
            Vaccines for Kids - Should Any Vaccines Be Required for
            Children?
            Milk - Is Drinking Milk Healthy for Humans?
            Abortion - Should Abortion Be Legal?
            Vegetarianism - Should People Become Vegetarian?
            Obesity - Is Obesity a Disease?
            Obamacare - Is the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
            (Obamacare) Good for America?
            Right to Health Care - Should All Americans Have the Right (Be
            Entitled) to Health Care?
            Prescription Drug Ads - Should Prescription Drugs Be
            Advertised Directly to Consumers?
          + Education

Education
            School Uniforms - Should Students Have to Wear School
            Uniforms?
            Standardized Tests - Is the Use of Standardized Tests
            Improving Education in America?
            Tablets vs. Textbooks - Should Tablets Replace Textbooks in
            K-12 Schools?
            College Education - Is a College Education Worth It?
            Teacher Tenure - Should Teachers Get Tenure?
            Student Loan Debt - Should Student Loan Debt Be Easier to
            Discharge in Bankruptcy?
            School Vouchers - Top 4 Pros and Cons
            Corporal Punishment - Should Corporal Punishment Be Used in
            K-12 Schools?
            Banned Books - Should parents or other adults be able to ban
            books from schools and libraries?
            Homework - Is Homework Beneficial?
          + Politics

Politics
            Death Penalty - Should the Death Penalty Be Allowed?
            Drinking Age - Should the Drinking Age Be Lowered from 21 to a
            Younger Age?
            Illegal Immigration - What Are the Solutions to Illegal
            Immigration in America?
            Gun Control - Should More Gun Control Laws Be Enacted?
            Recreational Marijuana - Should Recreational Marijuana Be
            Legal?
            ACLU - Is the ACLU Good for America?
            Concealed Handguns - Should Adults Have the Right to Carry a
            Concealed Handgun?
            Sanctuary Cities - Should Sanctuary Cities Receive Federal
            Funding?
            Under God in the Pledge - Should the Words "under God" Be in
            the US Pledge of Allegiance?
          + Science & Technology

Science & Technology
            Animal Testing - Should Animals Be Used for Scientific or
            Commercial Testing?
            Cell Phone Radiation - Are Cell Phones Safe?
            Alternative Energy vs Fossil Fuels - Can Alternative Energy
            Effectively Replace Fossil Fuels?
            Climate Change - Is Human Activity Primarily Responsible for
            Global Climate Change?
            Net Neutrality - Should Net Neutrality Be Restored?
            Police Body Cameras - Should police officers wear body
            cameras?
            Bottled Water Ban - Should Bottled Water Be Banned?
          + Elections & Presidents

Elections & Presidents
            Felon Voting - Should Felons Who Have Completed Their Sentence
            (Incarceration, Probation, and Parole) Be Allowed to Vote?
            Ronald Reagan - Was Ronald Reagan a Good President?
            Bill Clinton - Was Bill Clinton a Good President?
            Voting Machines - Do Electronic Voting Machines Improve the
            Voting Process?
            2016 Presidential Election - The Candidates and Where They
            Stand on the Issues (ARCHIVED)
            Electoral College - Should the United States Use the Electoral
            College in Presidential Elections?
            Voting Age - Should the Voting Age be Lowered to 16?
          + World/International

World / International
            Israeli-Palestinian Conflict - What Are the Solutions to the
            Israeli-Palestinian Conflict?
            Cuba Embargo - Should the United States Maintain Its Embargo
            against Cuba?
            US Drones Strikes Overseas - Should the United States Continue
            Its Use of Drone Strikes Overseas?
          + Sex & Gender

Sex & Gender
            Gay Marriage - Should Gay Marriage Be Legal?
            Prostitution - Should Prostitution Be Legal?
            Born Gay? - Is Sexual Orientation Determined at Birth?
          + Entertainment & Sports

Entertainment & Sports
            Social Media - Are Social Networking Sites Good for Our
            Society?
            Video Games and Violence - Do Violent Video Games Contribute
            to Youth Violence?
            Drug Use in Sports - Should Performance Enhancing Drugs (Such
            as Steroids) Be Accepted in Sports?
            Golf - Is It a Sport?
            Olympics - Are the Olympic Games an Overall Benefit for Their
            Host Countries and Cities?
            National Anthem Protests - Is Refusing to Stand for the
            National Anthem an Appropriate Form of Protest?
            Fighting in Hockey - Should fighting be allowed in hockey?
          + Economy & Taxes

Economy & Taxes
            Minimum Wage - Should the Federal Minimum Wage Be Increased?
            Gold Standard - Should the United States Return to a Gold
            Standard?
            Corporate Tax Rate & Jobs - Does Lowering the Federal
            Corporate Income Tax Rate Create Jobs?
            Churches and Taxes - Should Churches (Defined as Churches,
            Temples, Mosques, Synagogues, etc.) Remain Tax-Exempt?
            Social Security Privatization - Should Social Security Be
            Privatized?
            Daylight Savings Time - Should the United States Keep Daylight
            Saving Time?
            Universal Basic Income - Top 3 Pros and Cons
            Penny - Should the Penny Stay in Circulation?
          + You May Also Like

You May Also Like
            Watch our Videos
            Teachers' Corner
            Readers' Comments
            Who Uses ProCon.org?
            Weekly Tidbits
            Archived Topics
            Testimonials
            Donors & Sponsors
          + Get Involved

Get Involved
            ProCon.org Events
            Suggest a Topic
            Cite This Page
            Share on Social Media
            Volunteers / Interns
            Join


     * ABOUT
       US


     * JOIN


     * WATCH
       OUR VIDEOS


     * TEACHERS'
       CORNER

   GAY MARRIAGE
   [gay-marriage-wide.jpg]
   Should Gay Marriage Be Legal?
   On June 26, 2015, the US Supreme Court ruled that gay marriage is a
   right protected by the US Constitution in all 50 states. Prior to their
   decision, same-sex marriage was already legal in 37 states and
   Washington DC, but was banned in the remaining 13. US public opinion
   had shifted significantly over the years, from 27% approval of gay
   marriage in 1996 to 60% in 2015, the year it became legal throughout
   the United States, to 67% in 2018.
   Proponents of legal gay marriage contend that gay marriage bans are
   discriminatory and unconstitutional, and that same-sex couples should
   have access to all the benefits enjoyed by different-sex couples.
   Opponents contend that marriage has traditionally been defined as being
   between one man and one woman, and that marriage is primarily for
   procreation. Read more background...

   Top Pro & Con Arguments
   Denying some people the option to marry is discriminatory and creates a
   second class of citizens. On July 25, 2014 Miami-Dade County Circuit
   Court Judge Sarah Zabel ruled Florida's gay marriage ban
   unconstitutional and stated that the ban "serves only to hurt, to
   discriminate, to deprive same-sex couples and their families of equal
   dignity, to label and treat them as second-class citizens, and to deem
   them unworthy of participation in one of the fundamental institutions
   of our society." [105] Christine Gregoire, former Washington governor,
   said in Jan. 2012: "Throughout our history, we have fought
   discrimination. We have joined together to recognize equality for
   racial minorities, women, people with disabilities, immigrants...
   [Legalizing gay marriage] is the right thing to do and it is time."
   [139] US Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Richard Posner, in
   overturning same-sex marriage bans in Wisconsin and Indiana in Sep.
   2014, wrote that the bans "discriminate against a minority defined by
   an immutable characteristic." [40] As well as discrimination based on
   sexual orientation, gay marriage bans discriminate based on one's sex.
   As explained by David S. Cohen, JD, Associate Professor at the Drexel
   University School of Law, "Imagine three people—Nancy, Bill, and Tom...
   Nancy, a woman, can marry Tom, but Bill, a man, cannot... Nancy can do
   something (marry Tom) that Bill cannot, simply because Nancy is a woman
   and Bill is a man." [122]
   Same-sex couples should have access to the same benefits enjoyed by
   heterosexual married couples. There are 1,138 benefits, rights and
   protections available to married couples in federal law alone,
   according to a General Accounting Office assessment made in 2004. [86]
   Benefits only available to married couples include hospital visitation
   during an illness, the option of filing a joint tax return to reduce a
   tax burden, access to family health coverage, US residency and family
   unification for partners from another country, and bereavement leave
   and inheritance rights if a partner dies. [6] [95] Married couples also
   have access to protections if the relationship ends, such as child
   custody, spousal or child support, and an equitable division of
   property. [93] Married couples in the US armed forces are offered
   health insurance and other benefits unavailable to domestic partners.
   [125] The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the US Department of Labor
   also recognize married couples, for the purpose of granting tax,
   retirement and health insurance benefits. [126] The US federal
   government does not grant equivalent benefits to gay couples in civil
   unions or domestic partnerships. [153] [154] An Oct. 2, 2009 analysis
   by the New York Times estimated that same-sex couples denied marriage
   benefits will incur an additional $41,196 to $467,562 in expenses over
   their lifetimes compared with married heterosexual couples. [7] A Jan.
   2014 analysis published by the Atlantic concluded that unmarried women
   pay up to one million dollars more over their lifetimes than married
   women for healthcare, taxes, and other expenses. [94]
   The concept of "traditional marriage" has changed over time, and the
   definition of marriage as always being between one man and one woman is
   historically inaccurate. Harvard University historian Nancy F. Cott
   stated that until two centuries ago, "monogamous households were a
   tiny, tiny portion" of the world's population, and were found only in
   "Western Europe and little settlements in North America." Polygamy has
   been widespread throughout history, according to Brown University
   political scientist Rose McDermott, PhD. [110] [106] Interracial
   marriage was once illegal in a majority of US states, and was still
   banned in half of US states until the 1950s. [108] Official unions
   between same-sex couples, indistinguishable from marriages except for
   gender, are believed by some scholars to have been common until the
   13th Century in many countries, with the ceremonies performed in
   churches and the union sealed with a kiss between the two parties.
   [106]
   Gay marriage is protected by the US Constitution's commitments to
   liberty and equality. The US Supreme Court ruled 7-2 in the 1974 case
   Cleveland Board of Education v. LaFleur that the "freedom of personal
   choice in matters of marriage and family life is one of the liberties
   protected by the Due Process Clause." US District Judge Vaughn Walker
   wrote on Aug. 4, 2010 that Prop. 8 in California banning gay marriage
   was "unconstitutional under both the Due Process and Equal Protection
   Clauses." [41] The Due Process Clause in both the Fifth and 14th
   Amendments of the US Constitution states that no person shall be
   "deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law."
   [111] The Equal Protection Clause in the 14th Amendment states that no
   state shall "deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
   protection of the laws." [112]
   Marriage is an internationally recognized human right for all people.
   Since 1888 the US Supreme Court has declared 14 times that marriage is
   a fundamental right for all, according to the American Foundation for
   Equal Rights. [3] Article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human
   Rights guarantees "men and women of full age, without any limitation
   due to race, nationality or religion... the right to marry and to found
   a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during
   marriage and at its dissolution." [103] Amnesty International states
   that "this non-discrimination principle has been interpreted by UN
   treaty bodies and numerous inter-governmental human rights bodies as
   prohibiting discrimination based on gender or sexual orientation.
   Non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation has therefore
   become an internationally recognized principle." [104]
   Same-sex marriage is a civil right. The NAACP (National Association for
   the Advancement of Colored People), on May 21, 2012, named same-sex
   marriage as "one of the key civil rights struggles of our time." [61]
   In 1967 the US Supreme Court unanimously confirmed in Loving v.
   Virginia that marriage is "one of the basic civil rights of man." [60]
   The White House website lists same-sex marriage amongst a selection of
   civil rights, along with freedom from employment discrimination, equal
   pay for women, and fair sentencing for minority criminals. [118]
   Marriage is not only for procreation, otherwise infertile couples or
   couples not wishing to have children would be prevented from marrying.
   Ability or desire to create offspring has never been a qualification
   for marriage. From 1970 through 2012 roughly 30% of all US households
   were married couples without children, and in 2012, married couples
   without children outnumbered married couples with children by 9%. [96]
   6% of married women aged 15-44 are infertile, according to the US
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. [97] In a 2010 Pew Research
   Center survey, both married and unmarried people rated love,
   commitment, and companionship higher than having children as "very
   important" reasons to get married, and only 44% of unmarried people and
   59% of married people rated having children as a very important reason.
   [42] Several US presidents never had their own biological children,
   including George Washington, often referred to as "the Father of Our
   Country." [9] [12] As US Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan noted, a
   marriage license would be granted to a couple in which the man and
   woman are both over the age of 55, even though "there are not a lot of
   children coming out of that marriage." [88]
   Gay marriages can bring financial gain to federal, state, and local
   governments and can help boost the economy. Government revenue from
   marriage comes from marriage licenses, higher income taxes in some
   circumstances (the so-called "marriage penalty"), and decreases in
   costs for state benefit programs. [4] In July 2012 New York City Mayor
   Michael Bloomberg announced that gay marriage had contributed $259
   million to the city's economy since the practice became legal there in
   July 2011. [43] In 2012, the Williams Institute at the University of
   California at Los Angeles (UCLA) found that in the first five years
   after Massachusetts legalized gay marriage in 2004, same-sex wedding
   expenditures (such as venue rental, wedding cakes, etc.) added $111
   million to the state's economy. [114] A 2014 series of reports also by
   the Williams Institute estimated that legalizing same-sex marriage
   would boost the economies of the 11 US states studied by a total of
   $723 million over three years. [87] The Congressional Budget Office
   estimated in 2004 that federally-recognized gay marriage would cut the
   budget deficit by around $450 million a year. [89]
   Gay couples make good parents. A June 2014 peer-reviewed University of
   Melbourne study showed that children raised by same-sex parents score
   about six percent higher than the general population on measures of
   general health and family cohesion. [92] A study published in
   Pediatrics on June 7, 2010 found that children of lesbian mothers were
   rated higher than children of heterosexual parents in social and
   academic competence and had fewer social problems. [45] A July 2010
   study found that children of gay fathers were "as well-adjusted as
   those adopted by heterosexual parents." [46] As former Washington Post
   columnist Ezra Klein wrote, "We should be begging gay couples to adopt
   children. We should see this as a great boon that gay marriage could
   bring to kids who need nothing more than two loving parents." [68] In
   the United States, around 115,000 children are waiting to be adopted.
   [44]
   Gay marriage bans cause humiliation and uncertainty for children being
   raised by same-sex couples. In ruling Texas' gay marriage ban
   unconstitutional, San Antonio-based federal judge Orlando Garcia stated
   that the ban "causes needless stigmatization and humiliation for
   children being raised by the loving same-sex couples being targeted."
   [138] Children of unmarried same-sex couples are denied the stability
   that comes with having married parents, including the guarantee of
   child support in the case of divorce and an automatic legal connection
   to both parents. [107] If no legal relationship is established, the
   child cannot be sure of receiving financial support from the
   non-biologically related partner, and is not guaranteed an inheritance
   if that partner dies without leaving a will. [151]
   Marriage provides both physical and psychological health benefits, and
   banning gay marriage increases rates of psychological disorders. [5]
   The American Psychological Association, American Psychiatric
   Association, and others wrote in a Sep. 2007 amicus brief, "...allowing
   same-sex couples to marry would give them access to the social support
   that already facilitates and strengthens heterosexual marriages, with
   all of the psychological and physical health benefits associated with
   that support." [47] A 2012 study by researchers from UCLA, San
   Francisco State University, and the University of Massachusetts at
   Amherst found that same-sex married couples were "significantly less
   distressed than lesbian, gay, and bisexual persons not in a legally
   recognized relationship." [113] A 2010 analysis published in the
   American Journal of Public Health found that after their states had
   banned gay marriage, gay, lesbian and bisexual people suffered a 37%
   increase in mood disorders, a 42% increase in alcohol-use disorders,
   and a 248% increase in generalized anxiety disorders. [69]
   Legalizing gay marriage will not harm the institution of marriage, and
   same-sex marriages may even be more stable than heterosexual marriages.
   A study published on Apr. 13, 2009 in Social Science Quarterly found
   that "[l]aws permitting same-sex marriage or civil unions have no
   adverse effect on marriage, divorce, and abortion rates, [or] the
   percent of children born out of wedlock." [48] A Nov. 2011 study by
   UCLA's Williams Institute reported that the rate at which legally
   recognized same-sex couples (in marriages or civil unions, etc.) end
   their relationships is 1.1% on average, while 2% of married
   different-sex couples divorce annually. [115] The Executive Board of
   the American Anthropological Association found that more than a century
   of research has shown "no support whatsoever for the view that either
   civilization or viable social orders depend upon marriage as an
   exclusively heterosexual institution. Rather, anthropological research
   supports the conclusion that a vast array of family types, including
   families built upon same-sex partnerships, can contribute to stable and
   humane societies." [8]
   Gay marriage legalization is correlated with lower divorce rates, while
   gay marriage bans are correlated with higher divorce rates.
   Massachusetts, which became the first US state to legalize gay marriage
   in 2004, had the lowest divorce rate in the country in 2008. Its
   divorce rate declined 21% between 2003 and 2008. Alaska, which altered
   its constitution to prohibit gay marriage in 1998, saw a 17.2% increase
   in its divorce rate over the same period. The seven states with the
   highest divorce rates between 2003 and 2008 all had constitutional
   prohibitions to gay marriage. [2]
   Legal marriage is a secular institution that should not be limited by
   religious objections to same-sex marriage. Religious institutions can
   decline to marry gay and lesbian couples if they wish, but they should
   not dictate marriage laws for society at large. As explained by People
   for the American Way, "As a legal matter, marriage is a civil
   institution... Marriage is also a religious institution, defined
   differently by different faiths and congregations. In America, the
   distinction can get blurry because states permit clergy to carry out
   both religious and civil marriage in a single ceremony. Religious Right
   leaders have exploited that confusion by claiming that granting
   same-sex couples equal access to civil marriage would somehow also
   redefine the religious institution of marriage... this is grounded in
   falsehood and deception." [132] Nancy Cott, PhD, testified in Perry v.
   Schwarzenegger that "[c]ivil law has always been supreme in defining
   and regulating marriage." [41]
   Many religious leaders and churches support gay marriage and say it is
   consistent with scripture. Gene Robinson, openly gay former Bishop of
   the Episcopal Diocese of New Hampshire, stated in Sep. 2012: "Scripture
   says where love is, there is God also. And they [religious people] see
   that love in our families, and I think people can't help but be
   supportive." [128] Lee Jefferson, Assistant Professor of Religion at
   Centre College, wrote that the Bible makes no mention of same-sex
   marriage at all, nor does it make reference to sexual orientation as it
   is understood today. [129] Reform Judaism, which comprises about 80% of
   the American Jewish population, endorses same-sex marriage, and the
   Central Conference of American Rabbis has supported gay marriage since
   1996. [130] The Episcopal Church stated in Resolution A095, made in
   2006, that it "oppose[s] any state or federal constitutional amendment
   that prohibits same-sex civil marriage or civil unions." The
   Presbyterian Church (USA) voted in June 2014 to allow its pastors to
   marry same-sex couples. The United Church of Christ General Synod voted
   in July 2005 to affirm "equal marriage rights for couples regardless of
   gender." The 1996 General Assembly of the Unitarian Universalist
   Association adopted "a position in support of legal recognition for
   marriage between members of the same sex." [119] [141][142] [143]
   The institution of marriage has traditionally been defined as being
   between a man and a woman. In upholding gay marriage bans in Kentucky,
   Michigan, Ohio and Tennessee on Nov. 6, 2014, 6th US District Court of
   Appeals Judge Jeffrey S. Sutton wrote that "marriage has long been a
   social institution defined by relationships between men and women. So
   long defined, the tradition is measured in millennia, not centuries or
   decades. So widely shared, the tradition until recently had been
   adopted by all governments and major religions of the world." [117] In
   the Oct. 15, 1971 decision Baker v. Nelson, the Supreme Court of
   Minnesota found that "the institution of marriage as a union of man and
   woman, uniquely involving the procreation and rearing of children
   within a family, is as old as the book of Genesis." [49] John F.
   Harvey, MA, STL, late Catholic priest, wrote in July 2009 that
   "Throughout the history of the human race the institution of marriage
   has been understood as the complete spiritual and bodily communion of
   one man and one woman." [18] [109]
   Marriage is for procreation and should not be extended to same-sex
   couples because they cannot produce children together. Allowing gay
   marriage would only further shift the purpose of marriage from
   producing and raising children to adult gratification. [19] A
   California Supreme Court ruling from 1859 stated that "the first
   purpose of matrimony, by the laws of nature and society, is
   procreation." [90] Nobel Prize-winning philosopher Bertrand Russell
   stated that "it is through children alone that sexual relations become
   important to society, and worthy to be taken cognizance of by a legal
   institution." [91] Court papers filed in July 2014 by attorneys
   defending Arizona's gay marriage ban stated that "the State regulates
   marriage for the primary purpose of channeling potentially procreative
   sexual relationships into enduring unions for the sake of joining
   children to both their mother and their father... Same-sex couples can
   never provide a child with both her biological mother and her
   biological father." Contrary to the pro gay marriage argument that some
   different-sex couples cannot have children or don't want them, even in
   those cases there is still the potential to produce children. Seemingly
   infertile heterosexual couples sometimes produce children, and medical
   advances may allow others to procreate in the future. Heterosexual
   couples who do not wish to have children are still biologically capable
   of having them, and may change their minds. [98]
   Children need both a mother and a father. Girls who are raised apart
   from their fathers are reportedly at higher risk for early sexual
   activity and teenage pregnancy. [52] Children without a mother are
   deprived of the emotional security and unique advice that mothers
   provide. A 2012 study by Mark Regnerus, PhD, Associate Professor of
   Sociology at the University of Texas at Austin, found that children
   raised by parents who had same-sex relationships suffered more
   difficulties in life (including sexual abuse and unemployment in later
   life) than children raised by "intact biological famil[ies]." [133]
   Doug Mainwaring, the openly gay co-founder of National Capital Tea
   Party Patriots, stated that "it became increasingly apparent to me,
   even if I found somebody else exactly like me, who loved my kids as
   much as I do, there would still be a gaping hole in their lives because
   they need a mom... I don't want to see children being engineered for
   same-sex couples where there is either a mom missing or a dad missing."
   [53]
   Legalizing gay marriage could lead down a "slippery slope," giving
   people in polygamous, incestuous, bestial, and other nontraditional
   relationships the right to marry. [10] Glen Lavy, JD, senior counsel
   with the Alliance Defense Fund, argued in a May 21, 2008 Los Angeles
   Times op-ed, "The movement for polygamy and polyamory is poised to use
   the successes of same-sex couples as a springboard for further
   de-institutionalizing marriage." [11] In Apr. 2013 Slate writer Jillian
   Keenan wrote: "Just like heterosexual marriage is no better or worse
   than homosexual marriage, marriage between two consenting adults is not
   inherently more or less 'correct' than marriage among three (or four,
   or six) consenting adults." [71] James C. Dobson, Founder and Chairman
   of Focus on the Family, predicted in 2005 that legalizing same-sex
   marriage will enable "group marriage," "marriage between daddies and
   little girls," and "marriage between a man and his donkey." [136]
   Allowing gay couples to wed could further weaken the institution of
   marriage. Traditional marriage is already threatened with high divorce
   rates (between 40% and 50%), and 40.7% of babies were born to unmarried
   mothers in 2012. [50] [51] [116] Former US Senator (R-PA) and
   presidential candidate Rick Santorum stated that "Legalization of gay
   marriage would further undermine an institution that is essential to
   the well-being of children and our society. Do we need to confuse
   future generations of Americans even more about the role and importance
   of an institution that is so critical to the stability of our country?"
   [137] Ryan T. Anderson, William E. Simon Fellow in Religion and a Free
   Society at The Heritage Foundation, said "In recent decades, marriage
   has been weakened by a revisionist view that is more about adults’
   desires than children’s needs... Redefining marriage to include
   same-sex relationships is the culmination of this revisionism, and it
   would leave emotional intensity as the only thing that sets marriage
   apart from other bonds." [70]
   Homosexuality is immoral and unnatural. J. Matt Barber, Associate Dean
   for Online Programs at Liberty University School of Law, stated that
   "Every individual engaged in the homosexual lifestyle, who has adopted
   a homosexual identity, they know, intuitively, that what they're doing
   is immoral, unnatural, and self-destructive, yet they thirst for that
   affirmation." A 2003 set of guidelines signed by Pope John Paul II
   stated: "There are absolutely no grounds for considering homosexual
   unions to be in any way similar or even remotely analogous to God's
   plan for marriage and family... Marriage is holy, while homosexual acts
   go against the natural moral law." [147] Former Arkansas governor and
   Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee stated in Oct. 2014
   that gay marriage is "inconsistent with nature and nature’s law." [148]
   Gay marriage is contrary to the word of God and is incompatible with
   the beliefs, sacred texts, and traditions of many religious groups. The
   Bible, in Leviticus 18:22, states: "Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as
   with womankind: it is abomination," thus condemning homosexual
   relationships. [120] In Islamic tradition, several hadiths (passages
   attributed to the Prophet Muhammad) condemn gay and lesbian
   relationships, including the sayings "When a man mounts another man,
   the throne of God shakes," and "Sihaq [lesbian sex] of women is zina
   [illegitimate sexual intercourse]." [121] The Catholic Church, United
   Methodist Church, Southern Baptist Convention, Church of Jesus Christ
   of Latter-day Saints, National Association of Evangelicals, and
   American Baptist Churches USA all oppose same-sex marriage. [119] Two
   orthodox Jewish groups, the Orthodox Agudath Israel of America and the
   Orthodox Union, also oppose gay marriage, as does mainstream Islam.
   [13] [119] According to a July 31, 2003 statement from the Congregation
   for the Doctrine of the Faith and approved by Pope John Paul II,
   marriage "was established by the Creator with its own nature, essential
   properties and purpose. No ideology can erase from the human spirit the
   certainty that marriage exists solely between a man and a woman…" [54]
   Pope Benedict stated in Jan. 2012 that gay marriage threatened "the
   future of humanity itself." [145]
   Legalizing gay marriage often leads to an end to domestic partnership
   benefits for gay and straight couples, which disadvantages couples who
   choose not to get married. Maryland ended health insurance benefits for
   new domestic partnerships after same-sex marriage became legal in the
   state in 2013. [124] [135] The state of Washington automatically
   converted domestic partnerships to marriages when they legalized gay
   marriage in 2012, providing no option to retain domestic partnerships
   or civil unions unless one partner is at least 62 years old. [134]
   [123] The US Defense Department announced in Aug. 2013 that it would
   grant health insurance and other benefits to same-sex married partners
   of US troops, but that domestic partners would no longer be granted the
   same benefits. [125] The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the US
   Department of Labor recognized same-sex married couples for the purpose
   of granting tax, retirement, and health insurance benefits after the US
   Supreme Court declared part of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA)
   unconstitutional in 2013, but they did not include domestic
   partnerships or civil unions. [126]
   Gay marriage will accelerate the assimilation of gays into mainstream
   heterosexual culture to the detriment of the homosexual community. The
   gay community has created its own vibrant culture. By reducing the
   differences in opportunities and experiences between gay and
   heterosexual people, this unique culture may cease to exist. Lesbian
   activist M.V. Lee Badgett, PhD, Director of the Center for Public
   Policy and Administration at the University of Massachusetts at
   Amherst, stated that for many gay activists "marriage means adopting
   heterosexual forms of family and giving up distinctively gay family
   forms and perhaps even gay and lesbian culture." [14] Paula Ettelbrick,
   JD, Professor of Law and Women's Studies, wrote in 1989, "Marriage runs
   contrary to two of the primary goals of the lesbian and gay movement:
   the affirmation of gay identity and culture and the validation of many
   forms of relationships." [15]
   Marriage is an outmoded, oppressive institution that should be
   weakened, not expanded. LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender)
   activist collective Against Equality states that "Gay marriage apes
   hetero privilege... [and] increases economic inequality by perpetuating
   a system which deems married beings more worthy of the basics like
   health care and economic rights." [84] The leaders of the Gay
   Liberation Front in New York said in July 1969, "We expose the
   institution of marriage as one of the most insidious and basic
   sustainers of the system. The family is the microcosm of oppression."
   [16] Self-described queer activist Anders Zanichkowsky stated in June
   2013 that the campaign for gay marriage "intentionally and maliciously
   erases and excludes so many queer people and cultures, particularly
   trans and gender non-conforming people, poor queer people, and queer
   people in non-traditional families... marriage thinks non-married
   people are deviant and not truly deserving of civil rights." [127]
   People should not have their tax dollars used to support something they
   believe is wrong. Peter S. Sprigg, MDiv, Senior Fellow for Policy
   Studies at the Family Research Council, said that if gay marriage were
   legalized, "[t]axpayers, consumers, and businesses would be forced to
   subsidize homosexual relationships... One of the key arguments often
   heard in support of homosexual civil marriage revolves around all the
   government 'benefits' that homosexuals claim they are denied. Many of
   these 'benefits' involve one thing–taxpayer money that homosexuals are
   eager to get their hands on." [146] Gay marriage would entitle gay
   couples to typical marriage benefits including claiming a tax exemption
   for a spouse, receiving social security payments from a deceased
   spouse, and coverage by a spouse’s health insurance policy, largely at
   taxpayers' expense. On Dec. 17, 2009 the Congressional Budget Office
   estimated that the cost to the federal government of extending
   employment benefits to same-sex domestic partners of certain federal
   employees (making no mention of additional costs such as Social
   Security and inheritance taxes) would be $596 million in mandatory
   spending and $302 million in discretionary spending between 2010 and
   2019. [37]
   Marriage is a privilege, not a right. The US Constitution contains no
   explicit right to marry. [99] The European Court of Human Rights ruled
   on June 24, 2010 that the state has a valid interest in protecting the
   traditional definition of marriage, and stated that the Convention for
   the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms "enshrined the
   traditional concept of marriage as being between a man and a woman."
   [101] [102] Society can choose not to allow same-sex couples to marry,
   just as it does not allow a person to marry more than one partner or
   allow minors or close relatives to marry. [100] Matthew D. Staver, JD,
   Dean of the Liberty University School of Law, explained: "The unifying
   characteristics of the protected classes within the Civil Rights Act of
   1964 include (1) a history of longstanding, widespread discrimination,
   (2) economic disadvantage, and (3) immutable characteristics... 'Sexual
   orientation' does not meet any of the three objective criteria shared
   by the historically protected civil rights categories." [62]
   Legalizing gay marriage advances the "homosexual agenda" and unfairly
   paints opponents as bigots. The Illinois Family Institute states that
   if gay marriage is legalized, "Children will be taught that
   homosexuality is morally equivalent to heterosexuality... that children
   do not have any inherent rights to know and be raised by a mother and a
   father... [and] that opposition to the legalization of 'same-sex
   marriage' was equivalent to opposition to the legalization of
   interracial marriage. They will be taught that opposition to both was
   motivated by ignorance and hatred." [85] Lou Sheldon, Founder of the
   Traditional Values Coalition, warned of the influence on children of
   the "homosexual agenda," writing that "[o]ur little children are being
   targeted by the homosexuals and liberals... To be brainwashed to think
   that homosexuality is the moral equivalent of heterosexuality. We can't
   let that happen." [150]
   Civil unions and domestic partnerships can provide the protections and
   benefits gay couples need without changing the definition of marriage.
   Privileges available to couples in civil unions and domestic
   partnerships can include health insurance benefits, inheritance without
   a will, the ability to file state taxes jointly, and hospital
   visitation rights. [155] [156] 2016 presidential candidate and former
   Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina stated that civil unions are adequate
   as an equivalent to marriage for same-sex couples: "Benefits are being
   bestowed to gay couples [in civil unions]... I believe we need to
   respect those who believe that the word marriage has a spiritual
   foundation... Why can't we respect and tolerate that while at the same
   time saying government cannot bestow benefits unequally." [157] 43rd US
   President George W. Bush expressed his support for same-sex civil
   unions while in office: "I don't think we should deny people rights to
   a civil union, a legal arrangement, if that's what a state chooses to
   do so... I strongly believe that marriage ought to be defined as
   between a union between a man and a woman. Now, having said that,
   states ought to be able to have the right to pass laws that enable
   people to be able to have rights like others." [158]

   Top Pro & Con Arguments
   Pro
   1

   Denying some people the option to marry is discriminatory and creates a
   second class of citizens. On July 25, 2014 Miami-Dade County Circuit
   Court… Read More
   Pro
   1

Denying some people the option to marry is discriminatory and creates a
second class of citizens.

   On July 25, 2014 Miami-Dade County Circuit Court Judge Sarah Zabel
   ruled Florida's gay marriage ban unconstitutional and stated that the
   ban "serves only to hurt, to discriminate, to deprive same-sex couples
   and their families of equal dignity, to label and treat them as
   second-class citizens, and to deem them unworthy of participation in
   one of the fundamental institutions of our society." [105] Christine
   Gregoire, former Washington governor, said in Jan. 2012: "Throughout
   our history, we have fought discrimination. We have joined together to
   recognize equality for racial minorities, women, people with
   disabilities, immigrants... [Legalizing gay marriage] is the right
   thing to do and it is time." [139] US Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals
   Judge Richard Posner, in overturning same-sex marriage bans in
   Wisconsin and Indiana in Sep. 2014, wrote that the bans "discriminate
   against a minority defined by an immutable characteristic." [40] As
   well as discrimination based on sexual orientation, gay marriage bans
   discriminate based on one's sex. As explained by David S. Cohen, JD,
   Associate Professor at the Drexel University School of Law, "Imagine
   three people—Nancy, Bill, and Tom... Nancy, a woman, can marry Tom, but
   Bill, a man, cannot... Nancy can do something (marry Tom) that Bill
   cannot, simply because Nancy is a woman and Bill is a man." [122]
   Pro
   2

   Same-sex couples should have access to the same benefits enjoyed by
   heterosexual married couples. There are 1,138 benefits, rights and
   protections... Read More
   Pro
   2

Same-sex couples should have access to the same benefits enjoyed by
heterosexual married couples.

   There are 1,138 benefits, rights and protections available to married
   couples in federal law alone, according to a General Accounting Office
   assessment made in 2004. [86] Benefits only available to married
   couples include hospital visitation during an illness, the option of
   filing a joint tax return to reduce a tax burden, access to family
   health coverage, US residency and family unification for partners from
   another country, and bereavement leave and inheritance rights if a
   partner dies. [6] [95] Married couples also have access to protections
   if the relationship ends, such as child custody, spousal or child
   support, and an equitable division of property. [93] Married couples in
   the US armed forces are offered health insurance and other benefits
   unavailable to domestic partners. [125] The Internal Revenue Service
   (IRS) and the US Department of Labor also recognize married couples,
   for the purpose of granting tax, retirement and health insurance
   benefits. [126] The US federal government does not grant equivalent
   benefits to gay couples in civil unions or domestic partnerships. [153]
   [154] An Oct. 2, 2009 analysis by the New York Times estimated that
   same-sex couples denied marriage benefits will incur an additional
   $41,196 to $467,562 in expenses over their lifetimes compared with
   married heterosexual couples. [7] A Jan. 2014 analysis published by the
   Atlantic concluded that unmarried women pay up to one million dollars
   more over their lifetimes than married women for healthcare, taxes, and
   other expenses. [94]
   Pro
   3

   The concept of "traditional marriage" has changed over time, and the
   definition of marriage as always being between one man and one woman is
   historically... Read More
   Pro
   3

The concept of "traditional marriage" has changed over time, and the
definition of marriage as always being between one man and one woman is
historically inaccurate.

   Harvard University historian Nancy F. Cott stated that until two
   centuries ago, "monogamous households were a tiny, tiny portion" of the
   world's population, and were found only in "Western Europe and little
   settlements in North America." Polygamy has been widespread throughout
   history, according to Brown University political scientist Rose
   McDermott, PhD. [110] [106] Interracial marriage was once illegal in a
   majority of US states, and was still banned in half of US states until
   the 1950s. [108] Official unions between same-sex couples,
   indistinguishable from marriages except for gender, are believed by
   some scholars to have been common until the 13th Century in many
   countries, with the ceremonies performed in churches and the union
   sealed with a kiss between the two parties. [106]
   Pro
   4

   Gay marriage is protected by the US Constitution's commitments to
   liberty and equality. The US Supreme Court ruled 7-2 in the 1974 case
   Cleveland Board... Read More
   Pro
   4

Gay marriage is protected by the US Constitution's commitments to liberty and
equality.

   The US Supreme Court ruled 7-2 in the 1974 case Cleveland Board of
   Education v. LaFleur that the "freedom of personal choice in matters of
   marriage and family life is one of the liberties protected by the Due
   Process Clause." US District Judge Vaughn Walker wrote on Aug. 4, 2010
   that Prop. 8 in California banning gay marriage was "unconstitutional
   under both the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses." [41] The Due
   Process Clause in both the Fifth and 14th Amendments of the US
   Constitution states that no person shall be "deprived of life, liberty,
   or property, without due process of law." [111] The Equal Protection
   Clause in the 14th Amendment states that no state shall "deny to any
   person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." [112]
   Pro
   5

   Marriage is an internationally recognized human right for all people.
   Since 1888 the US Supreme Court has declared 14 times that marriage is
   a fundamental... Read More
   Pro
   5

Marriage is an internationally recognized human right for all people.

   Since 1888 the US Supreme Court has declared 14 times that marriage is
   a fundamental right for all, according to the American Foundation for
   Equal Rights. [3] Article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human
   Rights guarantees "men and women of full age, without any limitation
   due to race, nationality or religion... the right to marry and to found
   a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during
   marriage and at its dissolution." [103] Amnesty International states
   that "this non-discrimination principle has been interpreted by UN
   treaty bodies and numerous inter-governmental human rights bodies as
   prohibiting discrimination based on gender or sexual orientation.
   Non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation has therefore
   become an internationally recognized principle." [104]
   Pro
   6

   Same-sex marriage is a civil right. The NAACP (National Association for
   the Advancement of Colored People), on May 21, 2012, named same-sex
   marriage... Read More
   Pro
   6

Same-sex marriage is a civil right.

   The NAACP (National Association for the Advancement of Colored People),
   on May 21, 2012, named same-sex marriage as "one of the key civil
   rights struggles of our time." [61] In 1967 the US Supreme Court
   unanimously confirmed in Loving v. Virginia that marriage is "one of
   the basic civil rights of man." [60] The White House website lists
   same-sex marriage amongst a selection of civil rights, along with
   freedom from employment discrimination, equal pay for women, and fair
   sentencing for minority criminals. [118]
   Pro
   7

   Marriage is not only for procreation, otherwise infertile couples or
   couples not wishing to have children would be prevented from marrying.
   Ability... Read More
   Pro
   7

Marriage is not only for procreation, otherwise infertile couples or couples
not wishing to have children would be prevented from marrying.

   Ability or desire to create offspring has never been a qualification
   for marriage. From 1970 through 2012 roughly 30% of all US households
   were married couples without children, and in 2012, married couples
   without children outnumbered married couples with children by 9%. [96]
   6% of married women aged 15-44 are infertile, according to the US
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. [97] In a 2010 Pew Research
   Center survey, both married and unmarried people rated love,
   commitment, and companionship higher than having children as "very
   important" reasons to get married, and only 44% of unmarried people and
   59% of married people rated having children as a very important reason.
   [42] Several US presidents never had their own biological children,
   including George Washington, often referred to as "the Father of Our
   Country." [9] [12] As US Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan noted, a
   marriage license would be granted to a couple in which the man and
   woman are both over the age of 55, even though "there are not a lot of
   children coming out of that marriage." [88]
   Pro
   8

   Gay marriages can bring financial gain to federal, state, and local
   governments and can help boost the economy. Government revenue from
   marriage... Read More
   Pro
   8

Gay marriages can bring financial gain to federal, state, and local
governments and can help boost the economy.

   Government revenue from marriage comes from marriage licenses, higher
   income taxes in some circumstances (the so-called "marriage penalty"),
   and decreases in costs for state benefit programs. [4] In July 2012 New
   York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg announced that gay marriage had
   contributed $259 million to the city's economy since the practice
   became legal there in July 2011. [43] In 2012, the Williams Institute
   at the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) found that in the
   first five years after Massachusetts legalized gay marriage in 2004,
   same-sex wedding expenditures (such as venue rental, wedding cakes,
   etc.) added $111 million to the state's economy. [114] A 2014 series of
   reports also by the Williams Institute estimated that legalizing
   same-sex marriage would boost the economies of the 11 US states studied
   by a total of $723 million over three years. [87] The Congressional
   Budget Office estimated in 2004 that federally-recognized gay marriage
   would cut the budget deficit by around $450 million a year. [89]
   Pro
   9

   Gay couples make good parents. A June 2014 peer-reviewed University of
   Melbourne study showed that children raised by same-sex parents score
   about... Read More
   Pro
   9

Gay couples make good parents.

   A June 2014 peer-reviewed University of Melbourne study showed that
   children raised by same-sex parents score about six percent higher than
   the general population on measures of general health and family
   cohesion. [92] A study published in Pediatrics on June 7, 2010 found
   that children of lesbian mothers were rated higher than children of
   heterosexual parents in social and academic competence and had fewer
   social problems. [45] A July 2010 study found that children of gay
   fathers were "as well-adjusted as those adopted by heterosexual
   parents." [46] As former Washington Post columnist Ezra Klein wrote,
   "We should be begging gay couples to adopt children. We should see this
   as a great boon that gay marriage could bring to kids who need nothing
   more than two loving parents." [68] In the United States, around
   115,000 children are waiting to be adopted. [44]
   Pro
   10

   Gay marriage bans cause humiliation and uncertainty for children being
   raised by same-sex couples. In ruling Texas' gay marriage ban
   unconstitutional... Read More
   Pro
   10

Gay marriage bans cause humiliation and uncertainty for children being raised
by same-sex couples.

   In ruling Texas' gay marriage ban unconstitutional, San Antonio-based
   federal judge Orlando Garcia stated that the ban "causes needless
   stigmatization and humiliation for children being raised by the loving
   same-sex couples being targeted." [138] Children of unmarried same-sex
   couples are denied the stability that comes with having married
   parents, including the guarantee of child support in the case of
   divorce and an automatic legal connection to both parents. [107] If no
   legal relationship is established, the child cannot be sure of
   receiving financial support from the non-biologically related partner,
   and is not guaranteed an inheritance if that partner dies without
   leaving a will. [151]
   Pro
   11

   Marriage provides both physical and psychological health benefits, and
   banning gay marriage increases rates of psychological disorders. The…
   Read More
   Pro
   11

Marriage provides both physical and psychological health benefits, and
banning gay marriage increases rates of psychological disorders.

   [5] The American Psychological Association, American Psychiatric
   Association, and others wrote in a Sep. 2007 amicus brief, "...allowing
   same-sex couples to marry would give them access to the social support
   that already facilitates and strengthens heterosexual marriages, with
   all of the psychological and physical health benefits associated with
   that support." [47] A 2012 study by researchers from UCLA, San
   Francisco State University, and the University of Massachusetts at
   Amherst found that same-sex married couples were "significantly less
   distressed than lesbian, gay, and bisexual persons not in a legally
   recognized relationship." [113] A 2010 analysis published in the
   American Journal of Public Health found that after their states had
   banned gay marriage, gay, lesbian and bisexual people suffered a 37%
   increase in mood disorders, a 42% increase in alcohol-use disorders,
   and a 248% increase in generalized anxiety disorders. [69]
   Pro
   12

   Legalizing gay marriage will not harm the institution of marriage, and
   same-sex marriages may even be more stable than heterosexual marriages.
   A study... Read More
   Pro
   12

Legalizing gay marriage will not harm the institution of marriage, and
same-sex marriages may even be more stable than heterosexual marriages.

   A study published on Apr. 13, 2009 in Social Science Quarterly found
   that "[l]aws permitting same-sex marriage or civil unions have no
   adverse effect on marriage, divorce, and abortion rates, [or] the
   percent of children born out of wedlock." [48] A Nov. 2011 study by
   UCLA's Williams Institute reported that the rate at which legally
   recognized same-sex couples (in marriages or civil unions, etc.) end
   their relationships is 1.1% on average, while 2% of married
   different-sex couples divorce annually. [115] The Executive Board of
   the American Anthropological Association found that more than a century
   of research has shown "no support whatsoever for the view that either
   civilization or viable social orders depend upon marriage as an
   exclusively heterosexual institution. Rather, anthropological research
   supports the conclusion that a vast array of family types, including
   families built upon same-sex partnerships, can contribute to stable and
   humane societies." [8]
   Pro
   13

   Gay marriage legalization is correlated with lower divorce rates, while
   gay marriage bans are correlated with higher divorce rates.
   Massachusetts… Read More
   Pro
   13

Gay marriage legalization is correlated with lower divorce rates, while gay
marriage bans are correlated with higher divorce rates.

   Massachusetts, which became the first US state to legalize gay marriage
   in 2004, had the lowest divorce rate in the country in 2008. Its
   divorce rate declined 21% between 2003 and 2008. Alaska, which altered
   its constitution to prohibit gay marriage in 1998, saw a 17.2% increase
   in its divorce rate over the same period. The seven states with the
   highest divorce rates between 2003 and 2008 all had constitutional
   prohibitions to gay marriage. [2]
   Pro
   14

   Legal marriage is a secular institution that should not be limited by
   religious objections to same-sex marriage. Religious institutions can
   decline... Read More
   Pro
   14

Legal marriage is a secular institution that should not be limited by
religious objections to same-sex marriage.

   Religious institutions can decline to marry gay and lesbian couples if
   they wish, but they should not dictate marriage laws for society at
   large. As explained by People for the American Way, "As a legal matter,
   marriage is a civil institution... Marriage is also a religious
   institution, defined differently by different faiths and congregations.
   In America, the distinction can get blurry because states permit clergy
   to carry out both religious and civil marriage in a single ceremony.
   Religious Right leaders have exploited that confusion by claiming that
   granting same-sex couples equal access to civil marriage would somehow
   also redefine the religious institution of marriage... this is grounded
   in falsehood and deception." [132] Nancy Cott, PhD, testified in Perry
   v. Schwarzenegger that "[c]ivil law has always been supreme in defining
   and regulating marriage." [41]
   Pro
   15

   Many religious leaders and churches support gay marriage and say it is
   consistent with scripture. Gene Robinson, openly gay former Bishop of
   the... Read More
   Pro
   15

Many religious leaders and churches support gay marriage and say it is
consistent with scripture.

   Gene Robinson, openly gay former Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of New
   Hampshire, stated in Sep. 2012: "Scripture says where love is, there is
   God also. And they [religious people] see that love in our families,
   and I think people can't help but be supportive." [128] Lee Jefferson,
   Assistant Professor of Religion at Centre College, wrote that the Bible
   makes no mention of same-sex marriage at all, nor does it make
   reference to sexual orientation as it is understood today. [129] Reform
   Judaism, which comprises about 80% of the American Jewish population,
   endorses same-sex marriage, and the Central Conference of American
   Rabbis has supported gay marriage since 1996. [130] The Episcopal
   Church stated in Resolution A095, made in 2006, that it "oppose[s] any
   state or federal constitutional amendment that prohibits same-sex civil
   marriage or civil unions." The Presbyterian Church (USA) voted in June
   2014 to allow its pastors to marry same-sex couples. The United Church
   of Christ General Synod voted in July 2005 to affirm "equal marriage
   rights for couples regardless of gender." The 1996 General Assembly of
   the Unitarian Universalist Association adopted "a position in support
   of legal recognition for marriage between members of the same sex."
   [119] [141][142] [143]
   Con
   1

   The institution of marriage has traditionally been defined as being
   between a man and a woman. In upholding gay marriage bans in Kentucky,
   Michigan... Read More
   Con
   1

The institution of marriage has traditionally been defined as being between a
man and a woman.

   In upholding gay marriage bans in Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio and
   Tennessee on Nov. 6, 2014, 6th US District Court of Appeals Judge
   Jeffrey S. Sutton wrote that "marriage has long been a social
   institution defined by relationships between men and women. So long
   defined, the tradition is measured in millennia, not centuries or
   decades. So widely shared, the tradition until recently had been
   adopted by all governments and major religions of the world." [117] In
   the Oct. 15, 1971 decision Baker v. Nelson, the Supreme Court of
   Minnesota found that "the institution of marriage as a union of man and
   woman, uniquely involving the procreation and rearing of children
   within a family, is as old as the book of Genesis." [49] John F.
   Harvey, MA, STL, late Catholic priest, wrote in July 2009 that
   "Throughout the history of the human race the institution of marriage
   has been understood as the complete spiritual and bodily communion of
   one man and one woman." [18] [109]
   Con
   2

   Marriage is for procreation and should not be extended to same-sex
   couples because they cannot produce children together. Allowing gay
   marriage would... Read More
   Con
   2

Marriage is for procreation and should not be extended to same-sex couples
because they cannot produce children together.

   Allowing gay marriage would only further shift the purpose of marriage
   from producing and raising children to adult gratification. [19] A
   California Supreme Court ruling from 1859 stated that "the first
   purpose of matrimony, by the laws of nature and society, is
   procreation." [90] Nobel Prize-winning philosopher Bertrand Russell
   stated that "it is through children alone that sexual relations become
   important to society, and worthy to be taken cognizance of by a legal
   institution." [91] Court papers filed in July 2014 by attorneys
   defending Arizona's gay marriage ban stated that "the State regulates
   marriage for the primary purpose of channeling potentially procreative
   sexual relationships into enduring unions for the sake of joining
   children to both their mother and their father... Same-sex couples can
   never provide a child with both her biological mother and her
   biological father." Contrary to the pro gay marriage argument that some
   different-sex couples cannot have children or don't want them, even in
   those cases there is still the potential to produce children. Seemingly
   infertile heterosexual couples sometimes produce children, and medical
   advances may allow others to procreate in the future. Heterosexual
   couples who do not wish to have children are still biologically capable
   of having them, and may change their minds. [98]
   Con
   3

   Children need both a mother and a father. Girls who are raised apart
   from their fathers are reportedly at higher risk for early sexual
   activity and... Read More
   Con
   3

Children need both a mother and a father.

   Girls who are raised apart from their fathers are reportedly at higher
   risk for early sexual activity and teenage pregnancy. [52] Children
   without a mother are deprived of the emotional security and unique
   advice that mothers provide. A 2012 study by Mark Regnerus, PhD,
   Associate Professor of Sociology at the University of Texas at Austin,
   found that children raised by parents who had same-sex relationships
   suffered more difficulties in life (including sexual abuse and
   unemployment in later life) than children raised by "intact biological
   famil[ies]." [133] Doug Mainwaring, the openly gay co-founder of
   National Capital Tea Party Patriots, stated that "it became
   increasingly apparent to me, even if I found somebody else exactly like
   me, who loved my kids as much as I do, there would still be a gaping
   hole in their lives because they need a mom... I don't want to see
   children being engineered for same-sex couples where there is either a
   mom missing or a dad missing." [53]
   Con
   4

   Legalizing gay marriage could lead down a "slippery slope," giving
   people in polygamous, incestuous, bestial, and other nontraditional…
   Read More
   Con
   4

Legalizing gay marriage could lead down a "slippery slope," giving people in
polygamous, incestuous, bestial, and other nontraditional relationships the
right to marry.

   [10] Glen Lavy, JD, senior counsel with the Alliance Defense Fund,
   argued in a May 21, 2008 Los Angeles Times op-ed, "The movement for
   polygamy and polyamory is poised to use the successes of same-sex
   couples as a springboard for further de-institutionalizing marriage."
   [11] In Apr. 2013 Slate writer Jillian Keenan wrote: "Just like
   heterosexual marriage is no better or worse than homosexual marriage,
   marriage between two consenting adults is not inherently more or less
   'correct' than marriage among three (or four, or six) consenting
   adults." [71] James C. Dobson, Founder and Chairman of Focus on the
   Family, predicted in 2005 that legalizing same-sex marriage will enable
   "group marriage," "marriage between daddies and little girls," and
   "marriage between a man and his donkey." [136]
   Con
   5

   Allowing gay couples to wed could further weaken the institution of
   marriage. Traditional marriage is already threatened with high divorce
   rates... Read More
   Con
   5

Allowing gay couples to wed could further weaken the institution of marriage.

   Traditional marriage is already threatened with high divorce rates
   (between 40% and 50%), and 40.7% of babies were born to unmarried
   mothers in 2012. [50] [51] [116] Former US Senator (R-PA) and
   presidential candidate Rick Santorum stated that "Legalization of gay
   marriage would further undermine an institution that is essential to
   the well-being of children and our society. Do we need to confuse
   future generations of Americans even more about the role and importance
   of an institution that is so critical to the stability of our country?"
   [137] Ryan T. Anderson, William E. Simon Fellow in Religion and a Free
   Society at The Heritage Foundation, said "In recent decades, marriage
   has been weakened by a revisionist view that is more about adults’
   desires than children’s needs... Redefining marriage to include
   same-sex relationships is the culmination of this revisionism, and it
   would leave emotional intensity as the only thing that sets marriage
   apart from other bonds." [70]
   Con
   6

   Homosexuality is immoral and unnatural. J. Matt Barber, Associate Dean
   for Online Programs at Liberty University School of Law, stated that
   "Every… Read More
   Con
   6

Homosexuality is immoral and unnatural.

   J. Matt Barber, Associate Dean for Online Programs at Liberty
   University School of Law, stated that "Every individual engaged in the
   homosexual lifestyle, who has adopted a homosexual identity, they know,
   intuitively, that what they're doing is immoral, unnatural, and
   self-destructive, yet they thirst for that affirmation." A 2003 set of
   guidelines signed by Pope John Paul II stated: "There are absolutely no
   grounds for considering homosexual unions to be in any way similar or
   even remotely analogous to God's plan for marriage and family...
   Marriage is holy, while homosexual acts go against the natural moral
   law." [147] Former Arkansas governor and Republican presidential
   candidate Mike Huckabee stated in Oct. 2014 that gay marriage is
   "inconsistent with nature and nature’s law." [148]
   Con
   7

   Gay marriage is contrary to the word of God and is incompatible with
   the beliefs, sacred texts, and traditions of many religious groups. The
   Bible, in… Read More
   Con
   7

Gay marriage is contrary to the word of God and is incompatible with the
beliefs, sacred texts, and traditions of many religious groups.

   The Bible, in Leviticus 18:22, states: "Thou shalt not lie with
   mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination," thus condemning
   homosexual relationships. [120] In Islamic tradition, several hadiths
   (passages attributed to the Prophet Muhammad) condemn gay and lesbian
   relationships, including the sayings "When a man mounts another man,
   the throne of God shakes," and "Sihaq [lesbian sex] of women is zina
   [illegitimate sexual intercourse]." [121] The Catholic Church, United
   Methodist Church, Southern Baptist Convention, Church of Jesus Christ
   of Latter-day Saints, National Association of Evangelicals, and
   American Baptist Churches USA all oppose same-sex marriage. [119] Two
   orthodox Jewish groups, the Orthodox Agudath Israel of America and the
   Orthodox Union, also oppose gay marriage, as does mainstream Islam.
   [13] [119] According to a July 31, 2003 statement from the Congregation
   for the Doctrine of the Faith and approved by Pope John Paul II,
   marriage "was established by the Creator with its own nature, essential
   properties and purpose. No ideology can erase from the human spirit the
   certainty that marriage exists solely between a man and a woman…" [54]
   Pope Benedict stated in Jan. 2012 that gay marriage threatened "the
   future of humanity itself." [145]
   Con
   8

   Legalizing gay marriage often leads to an end to domestic partnership
   benefits for gay and straight couples, which disadvantages couples who
   choose... Read More
   Con
   8

Legalizing gay marriage often leads to an end to domestic partnership
benefits for gay and straight couples, which disadvantages couples who choose
not to get married.

   Maryland ended health insurance benefits for new domestic partnerships
   after same-sex marriage became legal in the state in 2013. [124] [135]
   The state of Washington automatically converted domestic partnerships
   to marriages when they legalized gay marriage in 2012, providing no
   option to retain domestic partnerships or civil unions unless one
   partner is at least 62 years old. [134] [123] The US Defense Department
   announced in Aug. 2013 that it would grant health insurance and other
   benefits to same-sex married partners of US troops, but that domestic
   partners would no longer be granted the same benefits. [125] The
   Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the US Department of Labor
   recognized same-sex married couples for the purpose of granting tax,
   retirement, and health insurance benefits after the US Supreme Court
   declared part of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) unconstitutional in
   2013, but they did not include domestic partnerships or civil unions.
   [126]
   Con
   9

   Gay marriage will accelerate the assimilation of gays into mainstream
   heterosexual culture to the detriment of the homosexual community. The
   gay... Read More
   Con
   9

Gay marriage will accelerate the assimilation of gays into mainstream
heterosexual culture to the detriment of the homosexual community.

   The gay community has created its own vibrant culture. By reducing the
   differences in opportunities and experiences between gay and
   heterosexual people, this unique culture may cease to exist. Lesbian
   activist M.V. Lee Badgett, PhD, Director of the Center for Public
   Policy and Administration at the University of Massachusetts at
   Amherst, stated that for many gay activists "marriage means adopting
   heterosexual forms of family and giving up distinctively gay family
   forms and perhaps even gay and lesbian culture." [14] Paula Ettelbrick,
   JD, Professor of Law and Women's Studies, wrote in 1989, "Marriage runs
   contrary to two of the primary goals of the lesbian and gay movement:
   the affirmation of gay identity and culture and the validation of many
   forms of relationships." [15]
   Con
   10

   Marriage is an outmoded, oppressive institution that should be
   weakened, not expanded. LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender)
   activist... Read More
   Con
   10

Marriage is an outmoded, oppressive institution that should be weakened, not
expanded.

   LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender) activist collective
   Against Equality states that "Gay marriage apes hetero privilege...
   [and] increases economic inequality by perpetuating a system which
   deems married beings more worthy of the basics like health care and
   economic rights." [84] The leaders of the Gay Liberation Front in New
   York said in July 1969, "We expose the institution of marriage as one
   of the most insidious and basic sustainers of the system. The family is
   the microcosm of oppression." [16] Self-described queer activist Anders
   Zanichkowsky stated in June 2013 that the campaign for gay marriage
   "intentionally and maliciously erases and excludes so many queer people
   and cultures, particularly trans and gender non-conforming people, poor
   queer people, and queer people in non-traditional families... marriage
   thinks non-married people are deviant and not truly deserving of civil
   rights." [127]
   Con
   11

   People should not have their tax dollars used to support something they
   believe is wrong. Peter S. Sprigg, MDiv, Senior Fellow for Policy
   Studies… Read More
   Con
   11

People should not have their tax dollars used to support something they
believe is wrong.

   Peter S. Sprigg, MDiv, Senior Fellow for Policy Studies at the Family
   Research Council, said that if gay marriage were legalized,
   "[t]axpayers, consumers, and businesses would be forced to subsidize
   homosexual relationships... One of the key arguments often heard in
   support of homosexual civil marriage revolves around all the government
   'benefits' that homosexuals claim they are denied. Many of these
   'benefits' involve one thing–taxpayer money that homosexuals are eager
   to get their hands on." [146] Gay marriage would entitle gay couples to
   typical marriage benefits including claiming a tax exemption for a
   spouse, receiving social security payments from a deceased spouse, and
   coverage by a spouse’s health insurance policy, largely at taxpayers'
   expense. On Dec. 17, 2009 the Congressional Budget Office estimated
   that the cost to the federal government of extending employment
   benefits to same-sex domestic partners of certain federal employees
   (making no mention of additional costs such as Social Security and
   inheritance taxes) would be $596 million in mandatory spending and $302
   million in discretionary spending between 2010 and 2019. [37]
   Con
   12

   Marriage is a privilege, not a right. The US Constitution contains no
   explicit right to marry. The European Court of Human Rights ruled on
   June 24… Read More
   Con
   12

Marriage is a privilege, not a right.

   The US Constitution contains no explicit right to marry. [99] The
   European Court of Human Rights ruled on June 24, 2010 that the state
   has a valid interest in protecting the traditional definition of
   marriage, and stated that the Convention for the Protection of Human
   Rights and Fundamental Freedoms "enshrined the traditional concept of
   marriage as being between a man and a woman." [101] [102] Society can
   choose not to allow same-sex couples to marry, just as it does not
   allow a person to marry more than one partner or allow minors or close
   relatives to marry. [100] Matthew D. Staver, JD, Dean of the Liberty
   University School of Law, explained: "The unifying characteristics of
   the protected classes within the Civil Rights Act of 1964 include (1) a
   history of longstanding, widespread discrimination, (2) economic
   disadvantage, and (3) immutable characteristics... 'Sexual orientation'
   does not meet any of the three objective criteria shared by the
   historically protected civil rights categories." [62]
   Con
   13

   Legalizing gay marriage advances the "homosexual agenda" and unfairly
   paints opponents as bigots. The Illinois Family Institute states that
   if gay… Read More
   Con
   13

Legalizing gay marriage advances the "homosexual agenda" and unfairly paints
opponents as bigots.

   The Illinois Family Institute states that if gay marriage is legalized,
   "Children will be taught that homosexuality is morally equivalent to
   heterosexuality... that children do not have any inherent rights to
   know and be raised by a mother and a father... [and] that opposition to
   the legalization of 'same-sex marriage' was equivalent to opposition to
   the legalization of interracial marriage. They will be taught that
   opposition to both was motivated by ignorance and hatred." [85] Lou
   Sheldon, Founder of the Traditional Values Coalition, warned of the
   influence on children of the "homosexual agenda," writing that "[o]ur
   little children are being targeted by the homosexuals and liberals...
   To be brainwashed to think that homosexuality is the moral equivalent
   of heterosexuality. We can't let that happen." [150]
   Con
   14

   Civil unions and domestic partnerships can provide the protections and
   benefits gay couples need without changing the definition of marriage…
   Read More
   Con
   14

Civil unions and domestic partnerships can provide the protections and
benefits gay couples need without changing the definition of marriage.

   Privileges available to couples in civil unions and domestic
   partnerships can include health insurance benefits, inheritance without
   a will, the ability to file state taxes jointly, and hospital
   visitation rights. [155] [156] 2016 presidential candidate and former
   Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina stated that civil unions are adequate
   as an equivalent to marriage for same-sex couples: "Benefits are being
   bestowed to gay couples [in civil unions]... I believe we need to
   respect those who believe that the word marriage has a spiritual
   foundation... Why can't we respect and tolerate that while at the same
   time saying government cannot bestow benefits unequally." [157] 43rd US
   President George W. Bush expressed his support for same-sex civil
   unions while in office: "I don't think we should deny people rights to
   a civil union, a legal arrangement, if that's what a state chooses to
   do so... I strongly believe that marriage ought to be defined as
   between a union between a man and a woman. Now, having said that,
   states ought to be able to have the right to pass laws that enable
   people to be able to have rights like others." [158]

                                Did You Know?
    1. On May 17, 2004, the first legal gay marriage in the United States
       was performed in Cambridge, MA between Tanya McCloskey, a massage
       therapist, and Marcia Kadish, an employment manager at an
       engineering firm. [26]
    2. The world's first legal gay marriage ceremony took place in the
       Netherlands on Apr. 1, 2001, just after midnight. The four couples,
       one female and three male, were married in a televised ceremony
       officiated by the mayor of Amsterdam. [152]
    3. The Congressional Budget Office estimated on Dec. 17, 2009 that
       extending employment benefits to same-sex domestic partners of
       federal employees would cost the federal government $596 million in
       mandatory spending and $302 million in discretionary spending
       between 2010 and 2019. [37]
    4. An Oct. 2, 2009 analysis by the New York Times estimated that
       same-sex couples denied marriage benefits will incur an additional
       $41,196 to $467,562 in expenses over their lifetimes compared with
       married heterosexual couples. [7]
    5. The Catholic Church, United Methodist Church, Southern Baptist
       Convention, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, National
       Association of Evangelicals, and American Baptist Churches USA all
       oppose same-sex marriage. [119]


   People who view this page may also like:
    1. Gay Marriage in the US Supreme Court, 2015
    2. Are people born gay? Pros and cons in debate over origin of sexual
       orientation
    3. History of the Same-Sex Marriage Debate, 1970 - present

   Our Latest Updates (archived after 30 days) rss icon

   Researcher Wanted at Educational Nonprofit ProCon.org
   1/17/2019 - ProCon.org, a Los Angeles-based 501(c)(3) nonprofit public
   charity, seeks an in-house Researcher (full-time with benefits or
   part-time without benefits) to develop content for websites devoted to
   a nonpartisan in-depth presentation of 70+ controversial issues. Three
   items are required for application, as specified in the job notice.
   Archived Notices (archived after 30 days) Last updated on 11/26/2018
   9:57:51 AM PST

   Gay Marriage Homepage
   red book icon
   Background of the Issue
   blue debate icon
   Top Pro & Con Arguments
   green quotes
   Top Pro & Con Quotes
   RECOMMENDED to you...
   1
   Did You Know?
   2
   Readers' Comments
   3
   Video Gallery
   4
   Gay Marriage around the World
   5
   Gay Marriage Timeline
   6
   State-by-State History of Banning and Legalizing Gay Marriage,
   1994-2015
   7
   Gay Marriage in the US Supreme Court, 2015
   + DIG DEEPER...
   Source Biographies
   Footnotes & Sources
   Gay Marriage in the US Supreme Court, 2013
   Top "Gay-Friendly" and "Gay-Unfriendly" US Companies, 2011
   2012 Presidential Candidates' Positions on Gay Marriage
   US Gay Marriage Polls, 1988-2010
   2016 Presidential Candidates' Positions on Gay Marriage
   [cite-icon-right-menu.png]
   CITE THIS PAGE
   Who is the author?
   SHARE
     *
     *
     *
     *

   HOME
   CITE THIS PAGE
   REPRINTING POLICY
   PRIVACY POLICY
   DISCLAIMER
   READER FAVORITES
   State Laws
   Debate Topics
   Critical Thinking Quotes
   Teaching Controversial Issues
   History Of...
   [translate-icon-right-menu.png]
   TRANSLATE
   into 100+ Languages and Dialects
   LET'S GET SOCIAL!
   Tweets by @procon_org
   BECOME A MEMBER
   ProCon.org is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit
   public charity supported by your donations.
   233 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 200
   Santa Monica, CA 90401
   310-451-9596
   [email protected]
   © 2018 ProCon.org
   All rights reserved

   Quantcast

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-2.txt>

   #publisher alternate

   Skip to main content

   The Guardian - Back to home
   Support The Guardian
   Contribute Subscribe Contribute
   Search jobs
   Sign in (Submit) My account
     * Comments & replies
     * Public profile
     * Account details
     * Emails & marketing
         ______________________________________________________________

     * Membership
     * Contributions
     * Digital Pack
         ______________________________________________________________

     * Sign out

   Search
   [_]
     * switch to the International edition
     * switch to the UK edition
     * switch to the US edition
     * switch to the Australia edition

   current edition: International edition
     * News
     * Opinion
     * Sport
     * Culture
     * Lifestyle

   [_] Show More
     * (Submit) News
          + World news
          + UK news
          + Science
          + Cities
          + Global development
          + Football
          + Tech
          + Business
          + Environment
          + Obituaries
     * (Submit) Opinion
          + The Guardian view
          + Columnists
          + Cartoons
          + Opinion videos
          + Letters
     * (Submit) Sport
          + Football
          + Rugby union
          + Cricket
          + Tennis
          + Cycling
          + F1
          + Golf
          + US sports
     * (Submit) Culture
          + Books
          + Music
          + TV & radio
          + Art & design
          + Film
          + Games
          + Classical
          + Stage
     * (Submit) Lifestyle
          + Fashion
          + Food
          + Recipes
          + Love & sex
          + Health & fitness
          + Home & garden
          + Women
          + Men
          + Family
          + Travel
          + Money

   ____________________ What term do you want to search? (Submit) Search
   with google
     * Make a contribution
     * Subscribe

     * (Submit) International edition
          + switch to the UK edition
          + switch to the US edition
          + switch to the Australia edition

     * Search jobs
     * Dating
     * Holidays
     * Digital Archive
     * The Guardian app
     * Video
     * Podcasts
     * Pictures
     * Newsletters
     * Today's paper
     * Inside the Guardian
     * The Observer
     * Guardian Weekly
     * Crosswords
     * Facebook
     * Twitter

     * Search jobs
     * Dating
     * Holidays
     * Digital Archive

     * World
     * Europe
     * US
     * Americas
     * Asia
     * Australia
     * Middle East
     * Africa
     * Inequality
     * Cities
     * Global development

   (Submit) More

   LGBT rights

Tanzania: men arrested for 'gay marriage' face anal examinations

   Ten detained on island of Zanzibar to undergo test campaigners call
   torture

   Jason Burke Africa correspondent

   Thu 8 Nov 2018 17.52 GMT Last modified on Thu 8 Nov 2018 18.09 GMT
     * Share on Facebook
     * Share on Twitter
     * Share via Email

   This article is over 2 months old

   Paul Makonda, regional commissioner for Dar es Salaam

   [_] Paul Makonda, regional commissioner for Dar es Salaam, has called
   for Tanzanians to report homosexuals. Photograph: Khalfan Said
   Hassan/AFP/Getty Images

   Ten men arrested for allegedly conducting a same-sex marriage ceremony
   on the Tanzanian island of Zanzibar are to face a forced anal
   examination on Friday, activists have told the Guardian.

   The procedure is supposed to discover evidence of homosexual activity,
   though many say the primary aim is to humiliate and hurt.

   The UN Committee against Torture has said such examinations “have no
   medical justification” and campaigners say they violate international
   law.

   The arrests were made on Saturday night at a party at Pongwe Beach
   resort and follow calls by Paul Makonda, regional commissioner for Dar
   es Salaam, Tanzania’s biggest city, for citizens to begin reporting
   homosexuals for round-ups in a country where anti-gay rhetoric has
   soared in recent years.

   Makonda said he had put together a team of officials and police that
   would target gay people, who could face lengthy prison sentences.

   On Sunday, national authorities issued a statement which, though it did
   not condemn the crackdown, did not condone the move. “The government of
   the United Republic of Tanzania would like to clarify that these are
   [Makonda’s] personal views and not the position of the government,” the
   foreign affairs ministry said in a statement.

   It added that the government would “continue to respect all
   international human rights conventions which it subscribes to”.

   One activist in the city said that the atmosphere was “more calm” since
   the government announcement: “The situation is much better now after
   the government bowed down to pressure.”

   However, other activists said that physical attacks on homosexuals were
   continuing.

   Officials in Tanzania have repeatedly backed a series of homophobic
   measures since John Magufuli became president in 2015 on an anti-graft
   platform.

   Campaign groups have accused Tanzania of following a dangerous path. In
   May, 65 civil rights groups from across the world signed an open letter
   expressing deep concern over the decline in respect for human rights,
   including the rights to freedom of association, expression and peaceful
   assembly, in Tanzania.

   Two opposition leaders were sentenced to five months in prison in
   February for insulting Magufuli, and an opposition leader was charged
   on Friday with sedition and inciting hatred, days after he said scores
   had died in clashes between security forces and herders in his western
   home district, a statement that was dismissed by authorities.

   Two foreign journalists detained earlier this week were released on
   Thursday. Angela Quintal, Africa program coordinator at the Committee
   to Protect Journalists, and Muthoki Mumo, CPJ’s sub-Saharan Africa
   representative, were both held overnight by police in Dar es Salaam.

   The LGBT community in Tanzania has faced repeated waves of repression.
   In 2016, Tanzania banned non-governmental organisations from
   distributing free lube to gay people as part of efforts to control the
   spread of HIV/Aids, even though some health experts warned shutting
   down such outreach programmes could put the wider population at higher
   risk of infection.

   In a raid last year, at least 12 men were arrested at a Dar es Salaam
   hotel gathering that authorities said was to promote same-sex
   relationships.

   Amnesty International has established that the men arrested last
   weekend were suspected of conducting a gay marriage because police
   found them sitting in pairs “two by two”.

   “It is mind-boggling that the mere act of sitting in a pair can assume
   criminal proportions. The police clearly have no grounds to file
   charges against these men in court, despite arresting them three days
   ago,” said Seif Magango, Amnesty International’s deputy director for
   east Africa, the Horn and the Great Lakes.

   A conviction for having “carnal knowledge of any person against the
   order of nature” can lead to 30 years or more in jail in Tanzania.

   Homosexuality remains taboo across much of Africa and gay people face
   discrimination or persecution, with human rights groups often reluctant
   to speak publicly in defence of gay rights.

   Six of the eight countries listed by campaigners as practicing anal
   examinations in 2016 were African: Tunisia, Egypt, Zambia, Kenya,
   Uganda and Cameroon.

   The Tunisian Medical Council banned such procedures last year.
   Topics
     * LGBT rights

     * Tanzania
     * Africa
     * news

     * Share on Facebook
     * Share on Twitter
     * Share via Email
     * Share on LinkedIn
     * Share on Pinterest
     * Share on WhatsApp
     * Share on Messenger

     * Reuse this content

Most popular

     * World
     * Europe
     * US
     * Americas
     * Asia
     * Australia
     * Middle East
     * Africa
     * Inequality
     * Cities
     * Global development

   IFRAME: /email/form/footer/today-uk

     * Contact us
     * Complaints & corrections
     * Secure Drop
     * Work for us
     * Privacy policy
     * Cookie policy
     * Terms & conditions
     * Help

     * All topics
     * All writers
     * Digital newspaper archive
     * Facebook
     * Twitter

     * Advertise with us
     * Search UK jobs

   Support The Guardian
   Contribute Subscribe
   Back to top
   © 2019 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
   All rights reserved.

   (Submit) Close

   [p?c1=2&c2=6035250&cv=2.0&cj=1&comscorekw=LGBT+rights%2CTanzania%2CAfri
   ca%2CWorld+news]

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-3.txt>

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5W6NC8

   [tr?id=154643575315468&ev=PageView&noscript=1]

   250 thistle logo
   ENCYCLOPÆDIA BRITANNICA 250 thistle logo
   START YOUR FREE TRIAL
   Advertisement
   Log In · Join
     * Demystified
     * Quizzes
     * Galleries
     * Lists
     * On This Day
     * Biographies
     * Newsletters

   START YOUR FREE TRIAL
   Advertisement
   Search Britannica
   What are you looking for?
   Search ____________________ (Submit) Click here to search
   Browse popular topics:
     * Assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.
     * Martin Luther King, Jr.
     * Nullification crisis
     * Great Famine
     * Social Darwinism

   Bring fact-checked results to the top of your browser search. Learn
   More. chrome store logo

Same-sex marriage

   Written By:
     * The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica

   See Article History
   Alternative Titles: same-sex partnership, same-sex union

   Same-sex marriage, the practice of marriage between two men or between
   two women. Although same-sex marriage has been regulated through law,
   religion, and custom in most countries of the world, the legal and
   social responses have ranged from celebration on the one hand to
   criminalization on the other.

   Some scholars, most notably the Yale professor and historian John
   Boswell (1947–94), have argued that same-sex unions were recognized by
   the Roman Catholic Church in medieval Europe, although others have
   disputed this claim. Scholars and the general public became
   increasingly interested in the issue during the late 20th century, a
   period when attitudes toward homosexuality and laws regulating
   homosexual behaviour were liberalized, particularly in western Europe
   and the United States.

   The issue of same-sex marriage frequently sparked emotional and
   political clashes between supporters and opponents. By the early 21st
   century, several jurisdictions, both at the national and subnational
   levels, had legalized same-sex marriage; in other jurisdictions,
   constitutional measures were adopted to prevent same-sex marriages from
   being sanctioned, or laws were enacted that refused to recognize such
   marriages performed elsewhere. That the same act was evaluated so
   differently by various groups indicates its importance as a social
   issue in the early 21st century; it also demonstrates the extent to
   which cultural diversity persisted both within and among countries. For
   tables on same-sex marriage around the world, in the United States, and
   in Australia, see below.

   IFRAME: /GPTIframe/ajax/sync/EB_HOUSE_DESKTOP

Cultural ideals of marriage and sexual partnership

   Perhaps the earliest systematic analyses of marriage and kinship were
   conducted by the Swiss legal historian Johann Jakob Bachofen (1861) and
   the American ethnologist Lewis Henry Morgan (1871); by the mid-20th
   century an enormous variety of marriage and sexual customs across
   cultures had been documented by such scholars. Notably, they found that
   most cultures expressed an ideal form of marriage and an ideal set of
   marriage partners, while also practicing flexibility in the application
   of those ideals.

   Among the more common forms so documented were common-law marriage;
   morganatic marriage, in which titles and property do not pass to
   children; exchange marriage, in which a sister and a brother from one
   family marry a brother and a sister from another; and group marriages
   based on polygyny (co-wives) or polyandry (co-husbands). Ideal matches
   have included those between cross-cousins, between parallel cousins, to
   a group of sisters (in polygyny) or brothers (in polyandry), or between
   different age sets. In many cultures the exchange of some form of
   surety, such as bride service, bridewealth, or dowry, has been a
   traditional part of the marriage contract.

   Cultures that openly accepted homosexuality, of which there were many,
   generally had nonmarital categories of partnership through which such
   bonds could be expressed and socially regulated. Conversely, other
   cultures essentially denied the existence of same-sex intimacy, or at
   least deemed it an unseemly topic for discussion of any sort.

Religious and secular expectations of marriage and sexuality

   Over time the historical and traditional cultures originally recorded
   by the likes of Bachofen and Morgan slowly succumbed to the
   homogenization imposed by colonialism. Although a multiplicity of
   marriage practices once existed, conquering nations typically forced
   local cultures to conform to colonial belief and administrative
   systems. Whether Egyptian, Vijayanagaran, Roman, Ottoman, Mongol,
   Chinese, European, or other, empires have long fostered (or, in some
   cases, imposed) the widespread adoption of a relatively small number of
   religious and legal systems. By the late 20th and early 21st centuries,
   the perspectives of one or more of the world religions—Buddhism,
   Hinduism, Judaism, Islam, and Christianity—and their associated civil
   practices were often invoked during national discussions of same-sex
   marriage.

   Perhaps because systems of religion and systems of civil authority
   often reflect and support each other, the countries that had reached
   consensus on the issue by the early 2000s tended to have a single
   dominant religious affiliation across the population; many such places
   had a single, state-sponsored religion. This was the case in both Iran,
   where a strong Muslim theocracy had criminalized same-sex intimacy, and
   Denmark, where the findings of a conference of Evangelical Lutheran
   bishops (representing the state religion) had helped smooth the way for
   the first national recognition of same-sex relationships through
   registered partnerships. In other cases, the cultural homogeneity
   supported by the dominant religion did not result in the application of
   doctrine to the civic realm but may nonetheless have fostered a
   smoother series of discussions among the citizenry: Belgium and Spain
   had legalized same-sex marriage, for instance, despite official
   opposition from their predominant religious institution, the Roman
   Catholic Church.

   The existence of religious pluralities within a country seems to have
   had a less determinate effect on the outcome of same-sex marriage
   debates. In some such countries, including the United States, consensus
   on this issue was difficult to reach. On the other hand, the
   Netherlands—the first country to grant equal marriage rights to
   same-sex couples (2001)—was religiously diverse, as was Canada, which
   did so in 2005.

   Most of the world religions have at some points in their histories
   opposed same-sex marriage for one or more of the following stated
   reasons: homosexual acts violate natural law or divine intentions and
   are therefore immoral; passages in sacred texts condemn homosexual
   acts; and religious tradition recognizes only the marriage of one man
   and one woman as valid. In the early 21st century, however, Judaism,
   Christianity, Hinduism, and Buddhism all spoke with more than one voice
   on this issue. Orthodox Judaism opposed same-sex marriage, while the
   Reform, Reconstructionist, and Conservative traditions allowed for it.
   Most Christian denominations opposed it, while the United Church of
   Christ, the United Church of Canada, and the Religious Society of
   Friends (Quakers) took a more favourable stand or allowed individual
   churches autonomy in the matter. The Unitarian Universalist churches
   and the gay-oriented Universal Fellowship of Metropolitan Community
   Churches fully accepted same-sex marriage. Hinduism, without a sole
   leader or hierarchy, allowed some Hindus to accept the practice while
   others were virulently opposed. The three major schools of
   Buddhism—Theravada, Mahayana, and Vajrayana—stressed the attainment of
   enlightenment as a basic theme; most Buddhist literature therefore
   viewed all marriage as a choice between the two individuals involved.

   Sexuality is but one of many areas where religious and civic authority
   interact; definitions of the purpose of marriage is another. In one
   view, the purpose of marriage is to ensure successful procreation and
   child rearing. In another, marriage provides a—and perhaps
   “the”—fundamental building block of stable communities, with
   procreation as an incidental by-product. A third perspective holds that
   marriage is an instrument of societal domination and so is not
   desirable. A fourth is that relationships between consenting adults
   should not be regulated by the government. Although most religions
   subscribe to just one of these beliefs, it is not uncommon for two or
   more viewpoints to coexist within a given society.

   Proponents of the first view believe that the primary goal of marriage
   is to provide a relatively uniform social institution through which to
   produce and raise children. In their view, because male and female are
   both necessary for procreation, the privileges of marriage should be
   available only to opposite-sex couples. In other words, partnerships
   involving sexual intimacy should have at least a notional potential for
   procreation. From this perspective, the movement to legally recognize
   same-sex marriage is a misguided attempt to deny the social, moral, and
   biological distinctions that foster the continued existence of society
   and so should be discouraged.

   Because this view considers biological reproduction a sort of social
   obligation, its advocates tended to frame individuals’ legal and moral
   commitment to one another as a matter of genetic relatedness. In cases
   of inheritance or custody, for instance, they generally defined the
   parents’ legal duties to their biological children differently than
   those to their stepchildren. Among groups who feel strongly that
   same-sex marriage is problematic, there is also a tendency for the
   legal relationships of spouses, parents, and children to converge.
   Typically, these societies provide for the automatic inheritance of
   property between spouses, and between parents and children, and allow
   these close kin to co-own property without joint ownership contracts.
   In addition, such societies often allow close kin a variety of
   automatic privileges such as sponsoring immigration visas or making
   medical decisions for one another; for those with whom one shares no
   close kin relationship, these privileges typically require legal
   interventions. Such legal circumventions are usually more difficult
   for, and in some cases even prohibited to, same-sex couples.

   In contrast to the procreative model of marriage, advocates of the
   legalization of same-sex marriage generally believed that committed
   partnerships involving sexual intimacy are valuable because they draw
   people together to a singular degree and in singular ways. In this
   view, such relationships are intrinsically worthy while also quite
   distinct from (though not incompatible with) activities associated with
   the bearing or raising of children. Sexual partnerships are one of a
   number of factors that bond adults together into stable household
   units. These households, in turn, form the foundation of a productive
   society—a society in which, albeit incidentally, children, elders, and
   others who may be relatively powerless are likely to be protected.

   From this perspective, the devaluation of same-sex intimacy is immoral
   because it constitutes arbitrary and irrational discrimination, thereby
   damaging the community. Most same-sex marriage advocates further held
   that international human rights legislation provided a universal
   franchise to equal treatment under the law. Thus, prohibiting a
   specific group from the full rights of marriage was illegally
   discriminatory. For advocates of the community-benefit perspective, all
   the legal perquisites associated with heterosexual marriage should be
   available to any committed couple.

   In contrast to these positions, self-identified “queer” theorists and
   activists sought to deconstruct the paired oppositional categories
   common in discussions of biology, gender, and sexuality (e.g.,
   male-female, man-woman, gay-straight) and to replace these with
   categories or continua that they believed better reflect the actual
   practices of humanity. Queer advocates contended that marriage is an
   institution of “hetero-normality” that forces individuals into
   ill-fitting cultural categories and demonizes those who refuse to
   accept those categories. For these reasons, they maintained that
   consensual intimacy between adults should not be regulated and that
   marriage should be disestablished as a cultural institution.

   A fourth view, libertarianism, had different premises from queer theory
   but somewhat similar ramifications; it proposed that government powers
   should be strictly limited, generally to the tasks of maintaining civil
   order, infrastructure, and defense. For libertarians, marriage
   legislation of any sort—either the legalization or the prohibition of
   same-sex marriage—fell outside of the role of government and was
   unacceptable. As a result, many libertarians believed that marriage
   should be “privatized” (i.e., removed from government regulation) and
   that citizens should be able to form partnerships of their choosing.

Same-sex marriage and the law

   Societies have resolved the intertwined issues of sexuality,
   reproduction, and marriage in myriad ways. Their responses regarding
   the morality, desirability, and administrative perquisites of same-sex
   partnerships have been equally diverse. Notably, however, by the
   beginning of the 21st century most countries opted for one of only
   three legal resolutions to these intersecting problems: to ignore
   same-sex partnerships, to criminalize them, or to grant them a status
   similar or equal to that of heterosexual marriage. Many countries have
   yet to reach a consensus on these issues. (See also marriage law.)

   As noted above, many societies traditionally chose to ignore the issue
   of same-sex marriage by treating same-sex intimacy as a subject
   unsuitable for discussion. Many of these jurisdictions, as well as
   those that actively criminalize same-sex unions, contended that
   homosexuality and lesbianism are mental disorders and built their
   public policies on this premise. In treating same-sex desire as a
   psychiatric illness, these cultures moved same-sex intimacy and
   marriage from the realm of civil regulations (the domain of contract
   law) to that of public safety (the domain of criminal law). In such
   societies, the possibility of arrest or institutionalization further
   reinforced taboos on same-sex intimacy and discussions thereof,
   typically driving such activities underground.

International

   In the early 21st century the countries that most seriously penalized
   same-sex relations tended to be in deeply conservative regions of the
   world, particularly Islamic theocracies and some parts of Asia and
   Africa. They often proscribed behaviours that other countries viewed as
   subject to moral, rather than legal, regulation. The judicial systems
   of many predominantly Muslim countries, for instance, invoke Islamic
   law (Sharīʿah) in a wide range of contexts. A variety of sexual or
   quasi-sexual acts, usually including same-sex intimacy, were
   criminalized in these countries, and the penalties for these acts could
   be as severe as execution. However, in a notable show of support for
   transgender individuals in the late 20th century, Iranian Ayatollah
   Ruhollah Khomeini issued a legal decree, or fatwa, supporting
   gender-reassignment surgery when undertaken by individuals who wished
   to “fix” their physiology and thus become heterosexual in the eyes of
   the law.

   In contrast, the acceptance of same-sex partnerships was particularly
   apparent in northern Europe and in countries with cultural ties to that
   region. In 1989 Denmark became the first country to establish
   registered partnerships—an attenuated version of marriage—for same-sex
   couples. Soon thereafter similar laws, generally using specific
   vocabulary (e.g., civil union, civil partnership, domestic partnership,
   registered partnership) to differentiate same-sex unions from
   heterosexual marriages, went into effect in Norway (1993), Sweden
   (1995), Iceland (1996), the Netherlands (1998), and elsewhere in
   Europe, including the United Kingdom (2005) and Ireland (2011).

   Interestingly—and perhaps as a reflection of tensions between the
   marriage-for-procreation and marriage-for-community-good positions
   discussed above—many European countries initially prevented same-sex
   couples from adoption and artificial insemination; by 2007, however,
   most of these restrictions had been removed. Outside Europe, some
   jurisdictions also adopted some form of same-sex partnership rights;
   Israel recognized common-law same-sex marriage in the mid-1990s (the
   Israeli Supreme Court further ruled in 2006 that same-sex marriages
   performed abroad should be recognized), and same-sex civil unions went
   into effect in New Zealand (2005) and in parts of Argentina, Australia,
   Brazil, and Mexico in the early 21st century. In 2007 Uruguay became
   the first Latin American country to legalize same-sex civil unions
   nationwide; the legislation became effective the following year.

   Some jurisdictions opted to specifically apply the honorific of
   “marriage” to same-sex as well as heterosexual unions. In 2000 the
   Netherlands revised its same-sex partnership law and the following year
   became the first country to offer marriage to same-sex couples; several
   other European countries subsequently legalized gay marriage. In 2003
   the European Union mandated that all of its members pass laws
   recognizing the same-sex marriages of fellow EU countries. As countries
   began to legalize same-sex partnerships, public opinion, particularly
   in Europe, began to shift in favour of full marriage rights for
   same-sex unions. For example, by the middle of the first decade of the
   2000s, a Eurobarometer poll (carried out by the European Commission)
   found that four-fifths of the citizens of the Netherlands felt that
   same-sex marriage should be legal throughout Europe; in a further seven
   countries (Sweden, Denmark, Belgium, Luxembourg, Spain, Germany, and
   the Czech Republic), a majority held a similar view. Nevertheless, in
   other parts of Europe, particularly central and southern Europe,
   support for same-sex marriage was quite low, often with fewer than
   one-fifth of those polled favouring legalization. By the following
   decade, polls indicated that roughly one-half of British citizens
   approved of legalizing same-sex marriage in the United Kingdom; such
   marriages were legalized in England and Wales in 2013, and Scotland
   followed suit in 2014.

   In 2005 Canada became the first country outside Europe to pass
   legislation legalizing same-sex marriage. Thereafter, South Africa
   (2006) and Argentina (2010) were the first African and Latin American
   countries, respectively, to legalize same-sex marriage. New Zealand
   (2013) became the first country in Oceania to do so. Elsewhere, Bermuda
   legalized same-sex marriage in 2017, but the following year it passed a
   bill that replaced such marriages with domestic partnerships. Bermuda
   thus became the first country to repeal same-sex marriage.

   In other countries, decisions on same-sex marriage were effectively
   turned over to individual states or districts. In 2009 the Federal
   District (Mexico City), separate from other Mexican jurisdictions,
   legalized same-sex marriage. Soon after the law went into effect in
   2010, Mexico’s Supreme Court ruled that it was constitutional and that
   all states in the country had to recognize same-sex marriages performed
   in Mexico City. Gay marriage was later made legal, under the same
   terms, elsewhere in the country. Similarly, shortly after Brazil
   legalized same-sex civil unions in 2011, the Supreme Federal Court
   ruled that sexual orientation could not be a pretext for denying a
   couple the legal protections of marriage, although it stopped short of
   specifically authorizing same-sex marriage at the federal level. In
   response, several Brazilian states separately opted to allow for
   same-sex marriages, which were considered valid throughout Brazil,
   before the National Council of Justice approved a resolution in 2013
   ensuring that such unions could be registered anywhere in the country.
   Also in 2013, the Australian Capital Territory became the first
   jurisdiction in Australia to pass a law permitting the marriage of
   same-sex couples, although Australia’s High Court later struck down the
   law within days of its having taken effect. In 2017 a majority of
   Australians voted for same-sex marriage in a nonbinding referendum.
   Shortly thereafter the country’s Parliament passed legislation
   legalizing same-sex marriage, and it was signed into law in December
   2017.

United States

   In the United States the question of whether couples of the same sex
   should be allowed to marry has roiled politics since at least 1993. In
   that year the Supreme Court of Hawaii heard a case in which the
   plaintiffs claimed that the state’s refusal to issue marriage licenses
   to same-sex couples abrogated those individuals’ rights to equal
   treatment under the law. The state, in turn, argued that it had a
   compelling interest in preventing same-sex marriage, as that practice
   would inherently damage the public good. The court found for the
   plaintiffs, basing its argument on the law’s absence of a clear
   definition of who might or might not participate in such a partnership.
   Soon after this finding, Hawaiian legislators added such a definition
   to the state constitution and thus made moot the issuing of marriage
   licenses to same-sex partners.

   Many Americans felt that the Hawaii court decision represented a
   serious threat to social stability, and in 1996 the U.S. Congress
   enacted the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). This legislation declared
   that same-sex marriages would not be recognized for federal purposes,
   such as the award of Social Security benefits normally afforded to a
   surviving spouse or employment-based benefits for the partners of
   federal employees. The act also restated existing law by providing that
   no U.S. state or territory was required to recognize marriages from
   elsewhere when it had strong policies to the contrary. Within a decade
   of the federal act’s passage, almost all the states had enacted laws or
   constitutional amendments declaring variously that marriage was legally
   defined as a heterosexual institution, that same-sex marriages from
   other states would not be recognized, or that same-sex marriage was
   contrary to the public policies of the state.

   Nonetheless, some states moved toward the legal recognition of same-sex
   partnerships. In 1999 the Vermont Supreme Court declared that same-sex
   couples were entitled under the state constitution to the same legal
   rights as married heterosexual couples; shortly thereafter the state
   legislature enacted a law creating “civil unions,” which conferred all
   the rights and responsibilities of marriage but not the name. In 2003
   California enacted a similar statute, calling the relationships
   “domestic partnerships.”

   Also in 2003, the Massachusetts Supreme Court ruled that the denial of
   marriage licenses to same-sex couples violated the state constitution;
   the court gave the state six months to comply with its order to remedy
   the situation. The state soon began to issue marriage licenses for
   same-sex couples, but these were quickly challenged and their legal
   status over the long term remained uncertain. Officials in some smaller
   jurisdictions, notably San Francisco, joined the controversy in early
   2004 by issuing marriage licenses in defiance of local prohibitions;
   these licenses were later found to be invalid. Subsequently, several
   other states and Washington, D.C., either established same-sex civil
   unions or adopted jurisdictionwide policies that accorded some spousal
   rights to same-sex couples.

   Early in 2008 the Supreme Courts of two states—California and
   Connecticut—struck down state laws limiting marriage to the union
   between a man and a woman. Later in 2008 the voters in California
   passed a referendum, Proposition 8, that defined marriage as a union
   between a man and a woman. Proposition 8 subsequently was ruled
   unconstitutional in federal district court in August 2010 on the
   grounds that the prohibition of same-sex marriage violated the due
   process and equal protection clauses. Although advocates of the
   referendum quickly sought to contest the decision, it was upheld by a
   federal appeals court in February 2012. Referenda similar to
   California’s Proposition 8 were approved in Arizona and Florida in 2008
   and in North Carolina in 2012.

   In April 2009 the Iowa Supreme Court overturned a state law that barred
   gay marriage, and soon afterward the legislatures of Vermont, Maine,
   and New Hampshire legalized same-sex marriage—though in November 2009
   Maine voters repealed the law. By 2011 Washington, D.C., and New York
   state had enacted similar legislation. In early 2012 bills allowing for
   same-sex marriage were passed by legislatures in Maryland and
   Washington state. Subsequent challenges to the laws made their
   implementation contingent on the results of ballot referenda, and in
   November voters in both states affirmed the laws. As the electorate in
   Maine simultaneously reversed its previous decision, the three states
   became the first in the country to approve same-sex marriage at the
   ballot box.

   Broadly reflecting the community-benefit rhetoric noted above, many
   American legal scholars and same-sex marriage advocates developed
   arguments that the equal protection clause of the U.S. Constitution
   guaranteed the fundamental right to marry. Opposition arguments broadly
   reflected the procreative position and frequently invoked biblical
   exegeses or other religious doctrine to support claims that marriage,
   strictly defined, should be available only to heterosexual couples.
   Advocates of both perspectives cited various and conflicting
   sociological studies in defense of their claims. At the beginning of
   the 21st century a clear majority of the U.S. population opposed
   same-sex marriage, but by 2010 about half of the population supported
   legalization, and many of those opposed were open to the creation of
   legally recognized partnerships for same-sex couples.

   In 2012, as public debate on the issue persisted, two significant
   events occurred at the federal level. Pres. Barack Obama, who during
   his initial years in office had endorsed only civil unions for same-sex
   couples, in May became the first sitting U.S. president to publicly
   support same-sex marriage. In December the U.S. Supreme Court announced
   that it would hear challenges to DOMA and to Proposition 8. The
   following year the court declared DOMA to be unconstitutional “as a
   deprivation of the equal liberty of persons that is protected by the
   Fifth Amendment,” and it vacated the appeals court’s ruling regarding
   Proposition 8 on the grounds that the law’s defenders (a group of
   private citizens) lacked standing to appeal the district court’s order.
   same-sex marriage: U.S. demonstration
   same-sex marriage: U.S. demonstrationDemonstrators in favour of
   same-sex marriage protesting in front of the U.S. Supreme Court
   building, Washington, D.C., 2013.Doug Mills—The New York Times/Redux

   Between December 2013 and August 2014, federal judges in 14 states
   overturned state bans of same-sex marriage. In all but two of those
   states, the rulings were stayed, although some of the states briefly
   performed same-sex marriages prior to their suspension. U.S. Attorney
   General Eric Holder announced that those marriages would be recognized
   by the federal government, and in February 2014 he introduced a
   Department of Justice policy to grant equal protection and treatment to
   all lawful marriages in the United States. In October the U.S. Supreme
   Court declined to review appeals of federal court decisions in five
   states, which effectively made same-sex marriage legal in those
   jurisdictions. As an indirect consequence, same-sex marriage was soon
   legalized by U.S. district courts in several additional states. By the
   end of 2014, the number of states where such marriages were legal had
   reached 35—more than twice as many as at the beginning of the year.

   In January 2015 the Supreme Court agreed to review a November 2014
   decision of the Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit that had upheld
   state laws and constitutional amendments banning same-sex marriage or
   the recognition of same-sex marriages performed in other jurisdictions.
   In June, in Obergefell v. Hodges, the court reversed both of the Sixth
   Circuit’s holdings, thereby legalizing same-sex marriage in all 50
   states.
   White House
   White HousePeople gathering in Lafayette Park to see the White House
   illuminated with rainbow colours in commemoration of the Supreme
   Court's ruling that effectively legalized same-sex marriage, June
   2015.Pablo Martinez Monsivais/AP Images

The future of same-sex marriage

   At the turn of the 21st century it was clear that the evolution of
   rights for same-sex couples depended to a great extent upon the
   interplay of a country’s institutional forces. In parliamentary unitary
   systems, such as those of the Netherlands, Spain, and the United
   Kingdom, for example, legislatures (and the executives derived from
   them) were instrumental in the success or failure of such laws. In
   other countries, particularly those with federal political systems and
   strong judiciaries, such as Canada, South Africa, and the United
   States, the courts played a vital role. For yet another group of
   polities, such as Switzerland and many U.S. states, institutional rules
   enabled voters to take a direct role in the passage or rejection of
   legislation.

   In countries where consensus has yet to be reached on this issue, the
   debate is unlikely to be resolved quickly or easily. In some parts of
   the world, such as those plagued by war or natural disasters, same-sex
   marriage is simply not an urgent matter. In others, the broad spectrum
   of notions about sexuality and the purpose of marriage is compounded by
   national pluralism and a tendency for secularism and religiosity to
   intersect in complex and unexpected ways.

Same-sex marriage around the world

   The table provides a list of countries that have legalized same-sex
   marriage, as well as selected countries that offer some other legal
   status for same-sex couples.

   CAPTION: Same-sex marriage around the world

   Countries with same-sex marriage^1
   country year effective
   ^1Same-sex marriage is also legal in parts of Mexico, and marriages
   performed in those jurisdictions are recognized throughout the country.
   See also footnote 2.
   ^2Same-sex marriage is legal in England, Wales, and Scotland.
   Argentina 2010
   Australia 2017
   Belgium 2003
   Brazil 2013
   Canada 2005
   Colombia 2016
   Denmark 2012
   Finland 2017
   France 2013
   Germany 2017
   Iceland 2010
   Ireland 2015
   Luxembourg 2015
   Malta 2017
   Netherlands 2001
   New Zealand 2013
   Norway 2009
   Portugal 2010
   South Africa 2006
   Spain 2005
   Sweden 2009
   United States 2015
   Uruguay 2013
   Selected countries with other legal status for same-sex couples
   country status year effective
   Andorra civil union 2014
   Austria registered partnership 2010
   Chile civil union 2015
   Croatia life partnership 2014
   Cyprus civil partnership 2015
   Czech Republic registered partnership 2006
   Ecuador stable union 2008
   Estonia registered partnership 2016
   Germany registered life partnership 2001
   Greece civil partnership 2015
   Hungary registered partnership 2009
   Italy civil union 2016
   Liechtenstein registered partnership 2011
   Malta civil union 2014
   Slovenia registered same-sex partnership 2006
   Switzerland registered partnership 2007
   United Kingdom^2 civil partnership 2005

Learn More in these related Britannica articles:

     * United States
       United States: The Barack Obama administration
       …the end of June the Supreme Court ruled on a pair of landmark
       cases. In Obergefell v. Hodges, it found state bans on same-sex
       marriage and on recognizing same-sex marriages performed in other
       jurisdictions to be unconstitutional under the due process and
       equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. That…
     * Spain
       Spain: Zapatero and a new generation of Socialist leadership
       …which were the legalization of same-sex marriage and the
       criminalization of domestic violence. Zapatero had long stressed
       the importance of the immigration issue for Spain, and his approach
       to it was very different from that of most other European
       governments; in 2005, for example, he implemented a program that
       enabled…
     * Australia
       Australia: Domestic issues
       …support for the legalization of same-sex marriage in a nonbinding
       postal referendum. Turnbull pledged that his government would work
       to revise Australia’s Marriage Amendment Act 2004, which defined
       marriage as being between a man and a woman, and in December 2017
       Parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of marriage equality.…
     * Canada
       Canada: Third premiership
       …nature of Canadian law regarding same-sex marriage was brought
       into question by Justice Department lawyers responding to a pair of
       divorce cases. At issue was the legality of a requirement that
       same-sex married couples must live in Canada for one year before
       seeking divorce. More controversial was the new assertion…
     * Ireland
       Ireland: Social and religious changes
       …in the world to approve same-sex marriage by referendum when 62
       percent of participating voters gave their approval to the measure
       allowing it. This result and the election of the openly gay
       Varadkar reflected a profound shift in Irish society away from its
       traditional social conservatism and toward progressive values…

ADDITIONAL MEDIA

     * gay rights movement: Proposition 8

More About Same-sex marriage

   41 references found in Britannica articles

Assorted References

     * Anglican Church of Canada
          + In Anglican Church of Canada
     * Argentina
          + In Argentina: The Menem era and the 21st century
     * Australia
          + In Australia: Domestic issues
          + In Malcolm Turnbull
     * Belgium
          + In Belgium: Federalized Belgium
     * Canada
          + In Canada: Third premiership
          + In Ontario: History
          + In Paul Martin
     * Costa Rica
          + In Costa Rica: Costa Rica in the 21st century
     * Ecuador
          + In Ecuador: Ecuador from the late 20th century

   (Submit) View More

Additional Reading

External Websites

     * National Conference of State Legislatures - Same-Sex Marriage Laws

   Britannica Websites
   Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school
   students.
     * same-sex marriage - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up)

Article History

Article Contributors

   Feedback
   Corrections? Updates? Help us improve this article! Contact our editors
   with your feedback.
   curiosity promo
   Same-sex marriage
   same-sex marriage View All Media

   related topics

          + Marriage
          + Homosexuality

   Advertisement
   Related Topics
     * GLAAD
     * Bill Frist
     * Homosexuality
     * Marriage
     * Hollingsworth v. Perry
     * Gordon B. Hinckley
     * Common-law marriage
     * Civil union
     * Concubinage
     * Adultery

   Similar Topics
     * Common-law marriage
     * Civil union
     * Concubinage
     * Adultery
     * Banns of marriage
     * Harem
     * Separation
     * Agunah
     * Group marriage
     * Mutʿah

   Featured On Britannica
     * Demystified / Science
       What Causes Lunar and Solar Eclipses?
       Solar Eclipse, Eclipse, Solar Flare, Outer Space, Astronomy
     * Companion / Science
       How the Nitrogen Cycle Works
       Bohr atomic model of a nitrogen atom.
     * Quiz / Animals
       Owl Quiz
       Great Grey Owl or Great Gray Owl (Strix nebulosa), Alaska. Wood
       owls, birds.
     * Companion / Music
       When Dylan “Went Electric”
       Bob Dylan (b. 1941) playing guitar and harmonica into microphone.
       1965.

   Britannica Lists & Quizzes
     * Musical instruments
       Music Quiz
       Australian Popular Music
     * Meeting of leaders in W.W.I, General Hindenburg, Kaiser William II,
       General Ludendorff examine maps during World War I in Germany.
       History List
       Military Commanders of World War I
     * tennis racket and tennis ball
       Sports & Recreation Quiz
       Australian Open
     * German machine gunners occupy a trench during World War I.
       History List
       Weapons of World War I

   Trending Topics
     * Assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.
     * Martin Luther King, Jr.
     * Nullification crisis
     * Great Famine
     * Social Darwinism
     * John Adams
     * Gregor Mendel
     * Democratic-Republican Party
     * Japan earthquake and tsunami of 2011
     * Charlemagne

   Connect with Britannica
   Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest
     * Introduction
     * Cultural ideals of marriage and sexual partnership
     * Religious and secular expectations of marriage and sexuality
     * Same-sex marriage and the law
          + International
          + United States
     * The future of same-sex marriage
     * Same-sex marriage around the world

   Edit Mode
   Same-sex marriage
   (BUTTON) Tips for Editing (BUTTON) Leave Edit Mode (Submit) Submit

   Tips For Editing

   We welcome suggested improvements to any of our articles. You can make
   it easier for us to review and, hopefully, publish your contribution by
   keeping a few points in mind.
    1. Encyclopædia Britannica articles are written in a neutral objective
       tone for a general audience.
    2. You may find it helpful to search within the site to see how
       similar or related subjects are covered.
    3. Any text you add should be original, not copied from other sources.
    4. At the bottom of the article, feel free to list any sources that
       support your changes, so that we can fully understand their
       context. (Internet URLs are the best.)

   Your contribution may be further edited by our staff, and its
   publication is subject to our final approval. Unfortunately, our
   editorial approach may not be able to accommodate all contributions.

   (Submit) (Submit) Submit

   Thank You for Your Contribution!

   Our editors will review what you've submitted, and if it meets our
   criteria, we'll add it to the article.

   Please note that our editors may make some formatting changes or
   correct spelling or grammatical errors, and may also contact you if any
   clarifications are needed.
   (Submit)

   Uh Oh

   There was a problem with your submission. Please try again later.
   (Submit) Close

Keep Exploring Britannica

   [default3.png]
   Gender wage gap
   Gender wage gap, in many industrialized countries, systemic differences
   between the average wages or…
   Read this Article
   Underground mall at the main railway station in Leipzig, Ger.
   Marketing
   Marketing, the sum of activities involved in directing the flow of
   goods and services from producers…
   Read this Article
   Margaret Mead
   Education
   Education, discipline that is concerned with methods of teaching and
   learning in schools or school-like…
   Read this Article
   (Submit) View More

   Stay Connected
   Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters
     * About Us
     * About Our Ads
     * Partner Program
     * Contact Us
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms of Use

   ©2019 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.

   250 thistle logo
   menu
   Menu
     * Home
     * Demystified
     * Quizzes
     * Galleries
     * Lists
     * On This Day
     * Biographies
     * Newsletters
     *
         ______________________________________________________________

     * Login
     * Join

   Contents
   Contents
   Same-sex marriage
   description Article collections Media
   print
   Print
   Print
   Please select which sections you would like to print:
     * [_] Table Of Contents

   Print
   bookmark
   Cite
   share
   Share
   Share
   Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Email
   chat
   Feedback
   Feedback
   Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to
   improve this article (requires login).
   Select feedback type: [Select a type (Required)...]

   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   (Submit) Submit Feedback
   If you prefer to suggest your own revision of the article, you can go
   to edit mode (requires login).
   Thank you for your feedback

   Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to
   revise the article.
   Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of
   experts to gain a global audience for your work!
   share
   Share
   Share
   Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Email
   search
   search
   Search ____________________
   close

   Email this page
   Email to ____________________
   Email from ____________________
   Subject ____________________
   Comments
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   Cancel
   (Submit) Send

   ×

   (Submit) close
   Download our free Chrome extension, Britannica Insights.
   [thistle-white.svg]
   Britannica Insights screenshot
   Facts matter and Britannica Insights makes it easier to find them.
   Install for Chrome Now
   Learn more

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-4.txt>

   #publisher

   [s?19=990&14=0&6=199909511&7=850929&25=0&18=0.7524279358527577]

   (Submit) CONTINUE TO SITE

   This website uses cookies in order to offer you the most relevant
   information. (Submit) × (Submit) Learn More (Submit) I Accept

   Search
   FINANCE HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE MGMT WORKFORCE POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY
   URBAN EDUCATION DATA PUBLIC OFFICIALS OF THE YEAR WOMEN IN GOVT
   MAGAZINE NEWSLETTERS PODCASTS EVENTS PAPERS
   Search

   MAGAZINE NEWSLETTERS PODCASTS EVENTS PAPERS

   DATA

State Same-Sex Marriage State Laws Map

   In a landmark ruling issued in June, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that
   the Constitution allows for same-sex couples to marry, effectively
   overturning remaining restrictions in place in states.

   Prior to the ruling, 37 states and the District of Columbia had
   legalized gay marriage: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado,
   Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
   Kansas, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Montana, Nevada, New
   Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Oklahoma,
   Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Utah, Vermont,
   Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming.

   Most other states had enacted constitutional or statutory bans on
   same-sex marriage, known as "Defense of Marriage" Acts. The following
   map shows state laws prior to the Supreme Court ruling:


   Same-Sex Marriage Map

   IFRAME:
   https://www.google.com/fusiontables/embedviz?viz=MAP&q=select+col3%3E%3
   E1+from+1v4taOmjhl_MsIiq8L7xaPNPaEv_nU1IO5PIF1Wg&h=false&lat=38.0653923
   5133249&lng=-95.9765625&z=4&t=1&l=col3%3E%3E1&y=2&tmplt=2

   NOTE: Please zoom out to view Alaska and Hawaii
   State Legislation

   Same-sex marriage legalized

   Civil unions or domestic partnerships

   Constitutional or statutory provisions prohibiting same-sex marriage


RELATED CONTENT

North Carolina Senate Overrides Governor's Veto of Anti-Gay Marriage Bill

   State senators also approved a bill restricting abortions.

North Carolina Governor Vetoes Anti-Gay Marriage Bill

   Pat McCrory won't sign a bill that would have allowed magistrates to
   opt out of performing weddings if they have religious objections.

Anti-Gay Marriage Bill Goes to North Carolina Governor's Desk

   In March, Gov. Pat McCrory voiced concerns about a bill to allow
   magistrates to opt out of performing marriages and said he won't sign
   it. He stopped short, however, of saying he would veto it. The governor
   can allow bills to become law without his signature.

Judge Legalizes Gay Marriage in Alabama, But Not Yet

   The federal judge who struck down Alabama's laws banning same-sex
   marriage reaffirmed her decision Thursday evening, but delayed its
   implementation.

Pittsburgh Pride's Iggy Azalea Problem

   Many LGBT groups are angry over Pittsburgh Pride headliner Iggy Azalea
   because of because of tweets from the singer that they consider to be
   homophobic and racist.

LATEST DATA HEADLINES

     *

6 Innovative Ways States and Localities Are Preparing for the 2020 Census
        1 day ago
     *

Your ZIP Code Determines Your Life Expectancy, But Not in These 7 Places
        1 month ago
     *

Finance Employees Are Fastest-Growing Segment of Local Government Workforce
        2 months ago
     *

The Economy Is Growing. These Workers' Paychecks Aren't.
        2 months ago
     *

More Americans Now Telecommute Than Take Public Transportation to Work
        4 months ago
     *

Why Unions' Supreme Court Loss May Not Be as Bad as It Seems
        4 months ago
     *

No College Degree? These Regions Offer the Best Job Prospects
        5 months ago
     *

The Winners and Losers in Retail's Growing Divide
        6 months ago

   MORE NEWS

NEWSLETTERS

   [_] DAILY
   [_] INSIDER
   [_] BETTER, FASTER, CHEAPER
   [_] DATA
   [_] FINANCE
   [_] THE WEEK IN PUBLIC FINANCE
   [_] HEALTH
   [_] HUMAN SERVICES
   [_] INFRASTRUCTURE
   [_] MANAGEMENT
   [_] POLITICS
   ____________________ SUBSCRIBE

PUBLIC SERVICE

     * BOOKS

PROGRAMS

     *
     * BFC WITH STEPHEN GOLDSMITH

     * GOVERNING INSTITUTE
     * VOICES OF THE GOVERNING INSTITUTE
     * PUBLIC OFFICIALS OF THE YEAR
     * WOMEN IN GOVERNMENT
     * CITY ACCELERATOR
     * EQUIPT TO INNOVATE ®

SPONSORED

     * SMARTER GOVERNMENT
     * GOVERNMENT 360
     * GOVERNMENT OF THE FUTURE

SOCIAL AND PODCASTS

   ABOUT PRIVACY CONTACT ADVERTISE
   © 2019 All rights reserved. e.Republic

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-5.txt>

   Follow
   JOIN
   (Submit)
   Log In
     * Benefits Overview
     * Exclusive Content
     * My Account
     * Log Out

   Cheat SheetPoliticsEntertainmentWorld NewsHalf FullArts and CultureU.S.
       NewsTechHunt for the CureScienceScoutedTravel

   ‹ Homepage

Equality

Obama Gave Us Gay Marriage, Trump The Honeymoon From Hell

   The fight for marriage equality drove LGBT politics in the first decade
   of The Daily Beast's life. Now campaigners are fighting to save it and
   other key protections under Trump.

Tim Teeman

   10.04.18 6:15 PM ET
   [180928-Teeman-Obama-Gave-Us-gay-marriage-tease_zigqrt]

Photo Illustration by Kelly Caminero/The Daily Beast

   In October 2008 The Daily Beast was born, just days before Connecticut
   became the third U.S. state to legalize gay marriage, and a month
   before Proposition 8 was passed in California, which overturned that
   state’s ruling the previous May that had legalized gay marriage.
   (Marriage equality eventually became law in California in 2013.)

   The last 10 years in American LGBT politics featured marriage equality
   as a red-button pivot, motivating activists pro and anti. That
   struggle, its hangover and practical and ideological remnants, is still
   being contested.

   Following a momentous SCOTUS ruling, marriage equality was finally
   legalized nationwide in 2015; the White House that June evening was
   wreathed in the colors of the rainbow to mark both the key civil-rights
   victory and Pride month.

   But ever since President Donald Trump’s election, the victory and
   meaning of marriage equality—so hard fought, and a brilliant
   achievement—has become imperiled.

   Justice Anthony Kennedy, who wrote the searingly-phrased ruling in the
   case of Obergefell v. Hodges, has retired. He was also the deciding
   vote in the key LGBT-focused SCOTUS cases of Romer v. Evans, Lawrence
   v. Texas, and Windsor v. the United States (culminating in the striking
   down in 2013 of the discriminatory section of the Defense of Marriage
   Act, with the inspirational Edie Windsor as its figurehead).

   President Trump is filling the Supreme Court’s empty spots with
   conservative justices: Neil Gorsuch is in place, Brett Kavanaugh, at
   the time of writing, is awaiting confirmation. The fiercely religious
   Vice President Mike Pence has long made clear his animus to the LGBT
   community, and now holds the zealotry-gilded keys to the political
   kingdom.

   Those opposed to LGBT equality have a new drum to march behind:
   religious liberty. The new guard at the White House, with Pence and
   Attorney General Jeff Sessions at their ideological forefront, have
   chosen an insidious scythe to chop away at not just marriage equality
   but also other equality and anti-discrimination measures and
   protections.

   Jim Obergefell himself wrote for Time, “With Kennedy’s retirement, I am
   concerned that the backlash is going to turn into a complete ripping
   away of every bit of equality—every bit of progress—we’ve made over
   these decades.”

   ‘Religious liberty,’ as evidenced in the Masterpiece Cakeshop case,
   posits that it is fine to not marry gay people, or serve them in shops,
   or afford them equality of treatment when it comes to adoption and
   fostering if you, as a religious person, disapprove of them. Sessions
   has even set up the Orwellian-sounding Religious Liberty Task Force to
   search out, and help, all those who feel their ‘religious liberties’
   and ‘religious freedoms’ are being trespassed upon them by having to
   treat LGBT people equally.

   The attacks on LGBT people, using “religious liberty,” has coincided
   with a period of particular trans-focused prejudice. President Trump
   has announced his determination to ban trans people from serving in the
   military. States like Texas have tried to pass ‘bathroom bans’ (and in
   Texas’ case will possibly try once more after failing the first time),
   which seek to regulate where trans people can and cannot use toilets in
   public.

   Meanwhile, trans people are being murdered and are victims of violence,
   which oddly doesn’t seem to bother the conservatives who have sought to
   make their lives so miserable and legally curtailed.

   If the LGBT hope of the Obama era has dissipated when it comes to the
   country’s legislators, in pop culture, progress is being made in terms
   of LGBT representation. Not enough—but still, characters, stories and
   shows on screen, including in the Oscar-winning Moonlight and Call Me
   By Your Name, have shown a sated thirst and hunger for new LGBT
   narratives.

   Those cultural battles on screen seem—presently at least—to be bearing
   more fruit than the fights on Capitol Hill and in courthouses. As The
   Daily Beast enters its second decade, the prevailing LGBT feeling is
   worry, concern, and the feeling that not only is marriage equality
   under threat, but so much else as well.

   Hearteningly, the energy of LGBT campaigners of many ages and
   experiences is rising to meet such challenges, grave and ill-portending
   as they are.

   As Obergefell wrote for Time: "I’m not just worried about the LGBTQ
   community. I’m scared for women’s rights, for voting rights. I’m scared
   for every marginalized group in this nation who relies upon the Supreme
   Court to live up to those four words etched into the building’s western
   pediment: Equal Justice Under Law.”

Keep Reading for more Daily Beast 10th Anniversary Coverage:

READ THIS LIST

     * Politics
     * Entertainment
     * World News
     * Half Full
     * Arts and Culture
     * U.S. News
     * Tech
     * Hunt for the Cure
     * Science
     * Scouted
     * Travel

     * About
     * Contact
     * Tips
     * Jobs
     * Help
     * Privacy
     * Code of Ethics & Standards
     * Terms & Conditions
     * Copyright & Trademark
     * Sitemap
     * Privacy Settings

   © 2019 The Daily Beast Company LLC
   Advertise With Us

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-6.txt>

     * News
     * Nightly News
     * Meet the Press
     * Dateline
     * MSNBC
     * TODAY

   (Submit)
   (Submit)
   Search
   ____________________ (Submit)
   Sponsored By
     * Politics
     * Shutdown
     * U.S. News
     * Business
     * World
     * Tech & Media
     * THINK
     * Sports

   [_]
     * Share this —
     *
     *
     *
     *

   (Submit)

OUT Politics and Policy

Cuba's new president backs same-sex marriage

   In his first interview since taking office, Cuban President Miguel
   Diaz-Canel said he supports gay marriage.
   Miguel DIaz-Canel
   Cuba's President Miguel Diaz-Canel, center, greets Cuban doctors
   outside the National Pantheon where he visited the tomb of Simon
   Bolivar in Caracas, Venezuela, on May 30, 2018.Ariana Cubillos / AP
   file
   Sep. 17, 2018, 4:45 PM GMT
   By Brooke Sopelsa

   Cuban President Miguel Diaz-Canel said in his first interview since
   taking office in April that he supports a proposed change to the
   constitution to allow same-sex marriage.

   "I defend there being no kind of discrimination," he said, although he
   added that it is up to the Cuban people to decide whether to include
   the change. The interview with the Venezuela-based television station
   Telesur aired on Sunday evening.

   Cuba is currently drafting a new constitution that is being debated at
   community meetings throughout the Caribbean island nation. The document
   will replace Cuba’s Cold War-era constitution.

   Diaz-Canel, 58, joins Cuban lawmaker Mariela Castro in support of
   legalizing gay marriage in the country. Mariela Castro is the daughter
   of Raul Castro — Diaz-Canel’s predecessor and the current leader of the
   Communist Party — and the niece of Fidel Castro.
   Mariela Castro, center, marches during the Eighth Annual March against
   Homophobia and Transphobia in Havana, on May 9, 2015.Alexandre
   Meneghini / Reuters file

   At a news conference in May, Mariela Castro said she would push for
   same-sex marriage to be included in the country’s constitutional reform
   process, which began in July. She also spoke of the need for tougher
   sanctions for anti-LGBTQ violence, according to Latin American news
   outlet Telesur.

   Mariela Castro has been a longtime advocate for LGBTQ rights in Cuba
   and serves as director of the National Center for Sex Education, a
   Havana-based LGBTQ advocacy and educational organization. She also
   leads the annual march against homophobia and transphobia in Havana,
   and her status as a staunch supporter for LGBTQ rights was the subject
   of a 2016 HBO documentary, “Mariela Castro’s March: Cuba’s LGBT
   Revolution.”

   FOLLOW NBC OUT ON TWITTER, FACEBOOK AND INSTAGRAM
   Reuters contributed.
     * About
     * Contact
     * Careers
     * Privacy policy
     * Terms of Service
     * SiteMap
     * Advertise
     * AdChoices

   © 2019 NBC UNIVERSAL
     *
     *
     *

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-7.txt>

     * News
     * Nightly News
     * Meet the Press
     * Dateline
     * MSNBC
     * TODAY

   (Submit)
   (Submit)
   Search
   ____________________ (Submit)
   Sponsored By
     * Politics
     * Shutdown
     * U.S. News
     * Business
     * World
     * Tech & Media
     * THINK
     * Sports

   [_]
     * Share this —
     *
     *
     *
     *

   (Submit)

OUT Politics and Policy

Kentucky clerk jailed over gay marriage licenses loses re-election bid

   Kim Davis, the Kentucky clerk who went to jail in 2015 for refusing to
   issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples, lost her bid for a second
   term on Tuesday.
   Image:
   Kim Davis, the county clerk for Rowan County in Kentucky, works with
   the county election board on Election Day, Tuesday, Nov. 6, 2018, in
   Morehead, Ky.John Flavell / AP
   Nov. 7, 2018, 2:49 PM GMT
   By Associated Press

   LOUISVILLE, Ky. — The Kentucky clerk who went to jail in 2015 for
   refusing to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples lost her bid
   for a second term on Tuesday.

   Kim Davis, the Republican incumbent, was defeated by Democrat Elwood
   Caudill Jr. in the election for clerk of Rowan County in northeastern
   Kentucky. Caudill won with 4,210 votes, or 54 percent, to 3,566, or 46
   percent, for Davis.

   "I believe that as a community we must continue to work together toward
   a more prosperous and cohesive Rowan County," Caudill said after his
   win, according to the Lexington Herald-Leader.

   Davis became a national figure when she stopped issuing marriage
   licenses days after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the U.S.
   Constitution guarantees same-sex couples the right to marry. The ruling
   overturned same-sex marriage bans nationwide. Davis cited her religious
   beliefs, saying she was acting under "God's authority." She was
   released from jail when her staff issued licenses in her absence.

Related

   NBC OUT

Sharice Davids, a lesbian Native American, makes political history in Kansas

   Rowan County voters denied Davis another term to a job that pays about
   $80,000 a year. She was elected to the clerk's job as a Democrat in
   2014, but later switched parties because she said the Democratic Party
   "abandoned her."

   She didn't back away from her stand, saying at a fall campaign debate
   that she didn't treat anyone unfairly, and that she took an oath to
   uphold the constitution. She said she treated everyone equally because
   she quit issuing marriage licenses altogether.

   At the same debate, Caudill said if elected he would treat everyone
   equally because he took an oath to uphold the law.

   Caudill criticized Davis for hiring her son to work for her. Davis
   defended the hiring, saying her son is someone she can trust to oversee
   human resources and handle the office computers.

Related

   NBC OUT

Colorado's Jared Polis projected to be first openly gay man elected governor

   Kentucky voters in 2004 overwhelmingly approved an amendment to the
   state Constitution defining marriage as between one man and one woman.
   But in June 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled the 14th amendment to
   the U.S. Constitution guarantees same-sex couples have the right to
   marry. The ruling overturned same-sex marriage bans nationwide.

   Days after the ruling, Davis stopped issuing marriage licenses.

   She was sued by gay and straight couples, and a federal judge ordered
   Davis to issue the licenses. She refused and spent five days in jail.

   She was released only after her staff issued the licenses on her behalf
   but removed her name from the form. The state legislature later enacted
   a law removing the names of all county clerks from state marriage
   licenses.

   A federal judge later ruled Kentucky taxpayers must pay the couples'
   legal fees of about $225,000.

   FOLLOW NBC OUT ON TWITTER, FACEBOOK AND INSTAGRAM
     * About
     * Contact
     * Careers
     * Privacy policy
     * Terms of Service
     * SiteMap
     * Advertise
     * AdChoices

   © 2019 NBC UNIVERSAL
     *
     *
     *

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-8.txt>

   #alternate

   [tr?id=1106253262752192&ev=PageView&noscript=1]

News24 News. Breaking News. First

   LAST UPDATED: 2019-01-19, 22:22
   In partnership with [city_press.png]
   ____________________ Search
   Cape Town High level clouds. Mild.

Sunday 14-25Â°C

   High level clouds. Mild.
     * 3 day forecast
          +

            Monday    17-22Â°c High level clouds. Cool. High level clouds. Cool.
            Tuesday   17-21Â°c Sunny. Cool.             Sunny. Cool.
            Wednesday 17-21Â°c Mostly sunny. Cool.      Mostly sunny. Cool.
            More weather from Weather24 >

   Brought to
   you by:
   [336064604a924ed5b127b2a937101b54.png]
     * News
          + South Africa
          + World
          + Africa
          + Entertainment
          + Green
          + Health
          + Local
     * Voices
          + MyNews24
          + Books
     * Business
          + Markets
          + Personal Finance
          + Economy
          + Opinion
          + Small Business
          + FinWeek
     * Sport
          + News
          + Rugby
          + Cricket
          + Soccer
          + Golf
          + Tennis
          + Formula1
          + Other Sport
          + SuperSport
          + Live Streaming
          + Video Highlights
     * Lifestyle
          + Health
          + Women
          + Motoring
          + Food
          + Travel
          + Entertainment
          + Parent
          + You
          + Drum
          + TrueLove
          + Move!
          + Dating
     * Video [1e8bfdb31c634fbd91a88b74679e91f8.png]
          + South Africa
          + Entertainment
     * Focus
          + Mandela100
          + Cyril100
          + Underworld Unmasked
          + Zimbabwe
          + Aids Focus
          + Good News
          + Competitions
     * Jobs
     * Property
     * Travel
          + News
          + Explore
          + Family Holidays
          + SA Holiday Guide
          + Weekend Escapes
          + Travel Planning
          + My Travels
     * Motoring
          + News
          + New Models
          + 4X4
          + Formula One
          + MotorSport
          + Bikes
          + Your Wheels
     * City Press
     * Partners
          + Anthem Project
          + Luxury Of Time
          + Mandela100
          + Mobility For All
          + Thank You For Caring
          + Be The Generation


Gay marriage: Europe split in two

   2018-10-04 22:00
   [cb37867fb9344c36af17faaf59b4e1e7.jpg]
   Scott D'Amico, left, and Brad Harker celebrate after the same sex
   marriage vote result announcement in Queens Park, Australia. (Photo:
   File - David Clark, AP)

   Scott D'Amico, left, and Brad Harker celebrate after the same sex
   marriage vote result announcement in Queens Park, Australia. (Photo:
   File - David Clark, AP)

   Multimedia   Â·   User Galleries   Â·   News in Pictures Send us your
   pictures  Â·  Send us your stories

Related Links

     * Zim gay group calls for tough govt action against abuse of its
       members
     * US restricts visas to unmarried gay diplomats
     * Have your say on Home Affairs officials refusing to marry same sex
       couples

   The referendum in Romania this weekend that could see the conservative
   country ban gay marriage underlines the largely East-West split in
   Europe over same-sex unions.

   Western Europe: pioneers

   In 2001 The Netherlands became the first country in the world to allow
   gay and lesbian couples to marry in a civil ceremony.

   Fifteen European countries have followed: Belgium, Britain (but not
   Northern Ireland, which only accepts civil partnerships), Denmark,
   Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Norway,
   Portugal, Spain and Sweden, with Austria due to join next year.

   In several of these countries, gay marriage had been preceded by civil
   partnerships, which come with fewer rights, Denmark being the pioneer
   in 1989.

   Some European countries still only allow such partnerships, rather than
   marriage, including Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Greece,
   Hungary, Italy and Switzerland.

   Slovenians also allow civil partnerships but in 2015 rejected in a
   referendum a proposal to legalise gay marriage.

   Bans in the east

   In June 2018 the Czech government backed draft legislation that would
   make the country the first post-communist member of the European Union
   to legalise same-sex marriage.

   But most Eastern European countries allow neither gay partnerships nor
   marriages, including Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania and
   Slovakia.

   In 2014 Estonia became the first former Soviet republic to authorise
   same-sex civil unions.

   In Russia homosexuality was considered a crime up to 1993 and a mental
   illness until 1999. Now legal, a 2013 law however punishes the
   promotion of homosexuality among minors.

   West opens to gay adoption

   Western Europe also leads the way on the rights of same-sex couples to
   adopt children, whether within marriage or civil partnerships.

   This is allowed in Austria, Belgium, Britain, Denmark, France, Germany,
   Malta and The Netherlands, Spain and Sweden.

   Other countries, like Finland and Slovenia, allow gay people to adopt
   their partner's children.

   Medically Assisted Procreation (MAP) is allowed for lesbian couples in
   Austria, Belgium, Britain, The Netherlands, Spain and the Nordic
   countries. France is examining whether to make such a move.

   Most European countries however ban surrogacy although the use of
   surrogate mothers is allowed - as long as they are not paid - in
   Belgium, Britain and The Netherlands. In an exception, Greece in 2014
   authorised paid surrogacy.

   Further afield, homosexual couples can also marry in Canada since 2005
   and in the United States since 2015, as well as in four Latin American
   countries: Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Uruguay.

   South Africa in 2006 became the sole African nation to allow gay
   marriage.

   Read more on:    lgbt  |  homosexuality
   NEXT ON NEWS24X
   [86d48eb77eec4d548805f1a55e29f7fd.jpg]

WATCH: Spanish rescuers drilling tunnel to search for toddler in well

   2019-01-19 22:22

Join the conversation!

   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of
   200 words or more will be considered for publication.
   We reserve editorial discretion to decide what will be published.
   Read our comments policy for guidelines on contributions.

Inside News24

     * [137x125.jpg]

SA schools still cling to traditional rules in 2019
       "Short back and sides, no afros please"
     * [137x125.jpg]

Olly is back!
       A quick chat with The Voice UK coach!
     * [137x125.jpg]

Could 2019 be the year for starting a business?
       Now is as good a time as any to turn your business dreams into a
       lucrative reality.
     * [137x125.jpg]

This Strandveld restaurant is unpretentious and uber-cool
       Wolfgat is a sustainable West Coast 20-seater eatery run by Eat Out
       Chef of 2019, Kobus van der Merwe.
     * [137x125.jpg]

Hong Kong scientists claim antiviral breakthrough
       New chemical could be used as broad-spectrum antiviral for
       infectious diseases.
     * [137x125.jpg]

10 Wallet-friendly recipes to get you to Pay Day
       When #JanuWorry has you searching under the couch for pennies.
     * [137x125.jpg]

Christian is that you?
       How the Hollywood star transformed once again!
     * [137x125.jpg]

Hereâs all you need to know about 2019 NBT
       The National Benchmark Tests assess your readiness for tertiary
       education in SA.


   Most Read
   News In Your Area
   Top Lifestyle
     * WATCH: 'Furious' motorist attacks cyclists near Stellenbosch
     * 'I just froze' - victim of alleged 'cycling rage' attack
     * Agrizzi testimony gives NPA key piece of evidence its needs to
       prosecute, after 8-year delay
     * TRIBUTE: Pat Lambie - The perfect squad guy
     * BLF deputy president throttled during attack in Soweto flat

   More..
   [change area]

News in Cape Town

     * Belhar school houses overspill of learners in a tent
     * Hurting Cobras, Titans want strong reactions
     * 'I just froze' - victim of alleged 'cycling rage' attack
     * Double whammy as cops nab man for licence disc fraud and find 111
       000 suspected mandrax tablets
     * Probe into allegations that teacher forced boy to run in his
       underwear

     * 4 Fabulous vegetarian burgers to try even if you're a meat lover
     * Turkey holiday escapes to suit all budgets
     * WATCH: Top 10 Biggest Yachts in the World
     * Your 2019 public holiday and long-weekend planning made easy
     * How to create knockout cocktails at home - tips from a pro
       bartender

   /News
   WATCH: 'Furious' motorist attacks cyclists near Stellenbosch
   [056eb6505e764f6b96308bb5f164d83f.jpg]
   loading...
     * WATCH: Bosasa and State Capture | Here's what you need to know
     * WATCH: Woman completes epic drive from Scotland to Cape Town in a
       1958 Morris Minor
     * WATCH: Newborn found in bin might get a new lease on life
     * WATCH | #StateCaptureInquiry: Former Bosasa COO Agrizzi takes stand
       for third day
     * LIVE ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony
     * WATCH: Fist bumps, high fives and dance-offs â teacher lets
       children choose how to say hello
     * WATCH LIVE | #StateCaptureInquiry: Former Bosasa COO Agrizzi back
       on the stand

   Traffic Alerts
   [traffic_icon.jpg]
   [trains_icon.jpg]
   [Western Cape..........]
   Traffic
   Bellville 19:56 PM
   Road name: N1 Outbound

   Outbound
   Cape Town 15:14 PM
   Road name: METRO RAIL

   More traffic reports [traffic_logo.jpg]
   [national_lottery.jpg]
   [lotto_corner.jpg]
   Here are the results for the Saturday 19 January Lottery draw
   2019-01-19 21:13 Click here for the full list of lottery results

Jobs in Cape Town [change area]

Jobs in Western Cape region

Group Financial Accountant

   [86x48.jpg]

   Cape Town Northern Suburbs
   Persona Staff

QA Technical Tester

   [86x48.jpg]

   Cape Town Northern Suburbs
   Hi-Tech Recruitment - Johannesburg

Reporting Accountant

   [86x48.jpg]

   Cape Town
   Network Finance Professional / Prudential
   R310 000.00 - R360 000.00 Per Year
   Browse more Cape Town jobs...
     * Cape Town Jobs
     * Nelspruit Jobs
     * Durban Jobs

     * Insurance Jobs
     * Admin Jobs
     * Sales Jobs

   Register your CV...
   Get Job alerts in your e-mail...
   RECRUITERS â Advertise your jobs here

Property [change area]

   [128x100.jpg]

HOUSES FOR SALE IN Durbanville, The Crest

   Houses R 2 795 000
   [128x100.jpg]

APARTMENTS / FLATS FOR SALE IN Cape Town, Sea Point

   Apartments / Flats R 1 995 000
   [128x100.jpg]

HOUSES FOR SALE IN Cape Town, Bergvliet

   Houses R 3 800 000

   IFRAME:
   https://www.facebook.com/plugins/likebox.php?href=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.fac
   ebook.com%2Fpages%2FNews24com%2F10227041841&width=300&height=245&show_f
   aces=true&colorscheme=light&stream=false&show_border=true&header=false


services

   [2540dab2683f4ee4a8c8a1c82bb546f2.jpg]

   Press Code We subscribe to the Press Code.
   [432cbe0789a040e9ae3627685a099a0e.png]

   E-mail Newsletters You choose what you want
   [743fa2f97b094840ab92d76ed7c4e407.jpg]

   News24 on Android Get the latest from News24 on your Android device.

   Terms and Conditions 24.com Terms and Conditions - Updated April 2012

   [24com_logo.png] Interactive Advertising Bureau
     * RSS feeds Â·
     * News24Wire Â·
     * Search Â·
     * Advertise on News24 Â·
     * Jobs at 24.com Â·
     * Terms & Conditions Â·
     * Contact us


   Â© 2019 24.com. All rights reserved.

   There are new stories on the homepage. Click here to see them.

   News24
   English
   Afrikaans
   isiZulu
   |
   OLX  |  PROPERTY24  |  CAREERS24  |  SUPERBALIST  |  AUTOTRADER  |

Hello

Create Profile

   Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to
   get published on News24.

Please provide a username for your profile page:

   This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the
   URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.
   ____________________
   [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)________

Hello

Choose a display name:

   ____________________
   * You must provide a display name.

Edit your avatar:

   [javascript] Select an image file on your computer (max 4MB): [BUTTON
   Input] (not implemented)______ [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)_____ *
   The image you selected could not be uploaded.

Tell us a bit about yourself:


   _______________________________________________________
   _______________________________________________________
   _______________________________________________________
   _______________________________________________________
   _______________________________________________________
   _______________________________________________________
   * Your profile could not be saved at the moment. Please try again
   later.
   [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)____

Saving your profile

   [ajax-loader-bar.gif]

     * Login / SignUp Login / SignUp

Settings

   Location Settings

   News24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a
   location. If you wish to personalise the page based on your
   preferences, please select a location for each component and click
   "Submit" in order for the changes to take affect.
   Your Location
   [Cape Town...........] *
   Weather
   [Cape Town...........] *
   [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)_____ [BUTTON Input] (not
   implemented)____
   [_] Always remember my setting

Saving your settings

   [ajax-loader-bar.gif]

Facebook Sign-In

   Hi News addict,

   Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.

   Log in with Facebook to comment and personalise news, weather and
   listings.
   Login with your Facebook account

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-11.txt>

   #Brookings » Feed Brookings » Comments Feed alternate alternate

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WHWFZ5

   Skip to main content

   Search Brookings ____________________ Search
     * About Us
     * Experts
     * Events
     * The Brookings Press
     * Brookings Exec Ed
     * Support Brookings
     * Careers
     * Cart 0
     * (Submit) Search

                       Conservative Case for Gay Marriage

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * LinkedIn
     * Print
     * SMS
     * Email
     * More
     *

     * Reddit
     * Google
     *
     *

     * Cities & Regions
     * Global Development
     * International Affairs
     * U.S. Economy
     * U.S. Politics & Government
     * More

   (Submit) (Submit)

   0

   civil_union001
   Op-Ed

Conservative Case for Gay Marriage

   Jonathan Rauch Monday, May 20, 2013

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * LinkedIn
     * Print
     * SMS
     * Email
     * More
     *

     * Reddit
     * Google
     *
     *

   “It became a cascade.” Dale Carpenter, a friend who e-mailed those
   words from Minneapolis, was writing about the unexpectedly lopsided
   vote for same-sex marriage in the Minnesota House last week (the state
   Senate approved it Monday, and the governor has signed it), but he
   might have been writing about the whole marriage movement.

   This month, Rhode Island and Delaware approved gay marriage. In June,
   the U.S. Supreme Court could restore it in California. If that happens,
   nearly 30% of the population will live in gay-marriage states.

   The cascade extends beyond marriage. America is rethinking its whole
   relationship with its gay citizens. This month, a poll by ABC News and
   The Washington Post found not only a 55% majority supporting marriage
   equality, but also even bigger majorities in favor of allowing openly
   gay Boy Scouts and opposed to banning gay Scout leaders. As for NBA
   center Jason Collins’ public announcement that he’s gay, it isn’t even
   controversial: It enjoys 68% approval.

   To understand why the public is breaking so fast for same-sex marriage,
   look not at “blue” (Democratic-leaning) states that recently approved
   it. Glance instead at deep-red South Carolina.

   There, on the same day that Delaware’s Senate passed marriage equality,
   the voters of the first congressional district sent former Republican
   governor and congressman Mark Sanford back to the House seat he
   occupied in the late 1990s.

Related Books

     *

Reclaiming the American Dream
       By Ben Hecht
       2018
     *

The Future of Work
       By Darrell M. West
       2018
     *

Chile and the Inter-American Human Rights System
       By Karinna Fernández, Sebastián Smart, and Cristián Peña
       2017

   Now, this is not a man who has done right by marriage. Rather, he used
   it as a doormat. As governor, Sanford took a mistress, then disappeared
   for days on a visit to her in Argentina and lied about it. He lost his
   job and his marriage. But last week, the voters chose to overlook both
   his infidelity and his mendacity. They even overlooked Sanford’s
   putting his mistress (now fiancée) onstage at a campaign event with his
   14-year-old son, whom news accounts described as “visibly
   uncomfortable.”

   The voters of South Carolina are entitled to shrug off Sanford’s
   connubial escapades, but many other people notice a conservative double
   standard. No matter how hard gays work to be true to our life partners,
   we don’t qualify for marriage. But no matter how shabbily straights
   treat their vows, they qualify not only for marriage but also for
   Congress.

   When millions of Americans see straight people busting up marriages
   while gay people struggle to form them, they draw the obvious, and
   correct, conclusion. America needs more marriages, not fewer. The
   threat to marriage in the USA today comes not from gays’ trying to
   marry but from straights’ failing to get married and stay married.

Author

Jonathan Rauch

Senior Fellow - Governance Studies

   jon_rauch

   Researchers find that blue states have lower rates of divorce and teen
   pregnancy than red states do. “If you’re looking for solid marriages,”
   as the (conservative) New York Times columnist Ross Douthat has
   written, “head to Massachusetts, not Alabama.” Why? Gay marriage
   probably isn’t reducing straight divorce rates, at least not much. But
   it is part and parcel of a re-commitment to family values, not a flight
   from them.

   Same-sex marriage is socially conservative in that sense — and in a
   deeper sense, too. The movement is about equality and rights, yes, but
   it is also about responsibility and obligation. Marriage joins couples
   not just in a contract with each other but also in a pact with their
   community, their kids, their God and millenniums of custom. Gay and
   lesbian Americans yearn for those bonds.

   The father of conservatism, Edmund Burke, famously said society is “a
   partnership not only between those who are living, but between those
   who are living, those who are dead and those who are to be born.” In
   seeking marriage, gays are asking to join Burke’s mighty stream of
   tradition. They are asking to be constrained, not liberated: to be tied
   to a commitment larger than themselves, larger even than each other.

   That is why same-sex marriage is cascading. The public looks at
   marriage equality and sees the greatest social conservative movement of
   our time. And, at least outside South Carolina, it looks at Mark
   Sanford and sees something else.

   Republished from USA Today >>

Related Topics

     * Social Issues

More on Social Issues

   Transportation staff
   The Avenue

Three things that matter for upward mobility in the labor market

   Alan Berube
   Tuesday, January 15, 2019
   A man walks a dog past a row of vacant houses on Crandall Street, a
   street that became a hub for narcotics activity according to local
   media and police, in Binghamton, New York, U.S., April 8, 2018. Picture
   taken April 8, 2018. REUTERS/Andrew Kelly - RC166673BE20
   FixGov

Congress in 2019: The challenge of left-behind places

   Elaine Kamarck
   Wednesday, January 2, 2019
   Nathan Allen, 65, poses for a portrait in front of the motorhome where
   he sleeps in a homeless RV and tent encampment near LAX airport in Los
   Angeles, California, United States, October 26, 2015. Allen lost his
   job as a handyman, and so couldn't afford to pay the rent for his
   apartment. Los Angeles is grappling with a massive homelessness
   problem, as forecasted El Nino downpours threaten to add to the misery
   of thousands of people who sleep on the streets. Mayor Eric Garcetti
   has proposed spending $100 million to combat the problem in the
   sprawling metropolis but stopped short of declaring a state of
   emergency. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson PICTURE 16 OF 17 - SEARCH "NICHOLSON
   MOTORHOME" FOR ALL IMAGES - GF10000270563
   Social Issues

Progress paradoxes and sustainable growth

   Carol Graham
   Wednesday, December 19, 2018

     * Find us on Facebook
     * Find us on Twitter
     * Find us on YouTube
     * Listen to our Podcast
     * Browse Newsletters
     * Subscribe to our RSS

     * Languages
     * Español
     * 中文
     * عربي

     * About Us
     * Research Programs
     * Find an Expert
     * For Media
     * Careers
     * Contact

     * Terms and Conditions
     * Brookings Privacy Policy
     * Copyright 2019 The Brookings Institution

   (Submit) Close
     * Trending
          + U.S. Politics & Government
          + International Affairs
          + U.S. Economy
          + U.S. Foreign Policy
     * Topics
          + Cities & Regions
          + Global Development
          + International Affairs
          + U.S. Economy
          + U.S. Politics & Government
          + More
     * About Us
     * Experts
     * Events
     * The Brookings Press
     * Brookings Exec Ed
     * Support Brookings
     * Careers
     * Cart 0

   Get daily updates from Brookings

   Enter Email ____________________ Subscribe

   (Submit)

   Send to Email Address ____________________ Your Name
   ____________________ Your Email Address ____________________
   _________________________
   loading Send Email Cancel
   Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
   Email check failed, please try again
   Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-12.txt>

     * Sections
          + Sections
          + Top Stories
          + Watch
          + U.S.
          + International
          + Politics
          + Lifestyle
          + Entertainment
          + Virtual Reality
          + Health
          + Technology
          + Sports
          + Weather
          + FiveThirtyEight
     * Shows
          + Shows
          + Good Morning America
          + World News Tonight
          + Nightline
          + 20/20
          + This Week
          + The View
          + What Would You Do?
     * Live
          + Live
          + ABC News Live
          + NYC skyline from Empire State Building to 1 WTC
          + Central Park in NYC
          + View of Los Angeles' Hollywood Blvd
          + Kittens play on 'Dorm Cam' in Los Angeles
          + California Academy of Sciences reef lagoon cam
     * More
          + Privacy Policy
          + Your CA Privacy Rights
          + Children's Online Privacy Policy
          + Interest-Based Ads
          + Terms of Use
          + Contact Us
          + Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2019 ABC News Internet Ventures.
            All rights reserved.
     * Search
          + ____________________ Submit

   Menu

   Interest Successfully Added We'll notify you here with news about
   AlertTag Turn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about
   interest? [_] Off On
     * Notifications
          + Notifications For Interests:
          + Breaking
          + Interests See All
       To save your interests across all devices Log In or Sign Up
       Turn on desktop notifications for breaking news? [_] Off On
     * Log In

     * Video
     * Live
     * Shows
          + Good Morning America Good Morning America
          + World News Tonight World News Tonight
          + Nightline Nightline
          + 20/20 20/20
          + This Week This Week
          + The View The View
          + What Would You Do? What Would You Do?
     *
          + U.S.
          + Politics
          + International
          + Entertainment
          + Lifestyle
          + Health
          + Virtual Reality
          + Technology
          + Sports
          + Weather
          + FiveThirtyEight
          + Privacy PolicyPrivacy Policy
          + Your CA Privacy RightsYour CA Privacy Rights
          + Children's Online Privacy PolicyChildren's Online Privacy
            Policy
          + Interest-Based AdsInterest-Based Ads
          + Terms of UseTerms of Use
          + Contact UsContact Us
          + Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2019 ABC News Internet Ventures.
            All rights reserved.
       ____________________ Submit

Here are the 27 countries where same-sex marriage is officially legal

     * By Elisa Tang
       Close
       More from Elisa
     * via GMA

   Jun 22, 2018, 5:41 AM ET
     * 0 Shares
     *
     *
     *
     * Email
     * Star

   PHOTO: Pride Story Hero PlayABC News
   WATCH Here are some of the other countries where same-sex marriage is
   officially legal
     * 0 Shares
     *
     *
     *
     * Email

   As part of Pride Month, "GMA" is spotlighting on all issues that impact
   the LGBT community.

   We compiled a list of all the countries that have officially legalized
   same-sex marriage. Twenty-seven out of 195 countries have passed laws
   allowing gay marriage, according to the Pew Research Center.

   Pride Story map GMA
   Pride Story map

   Below is a timeline for the 27 countries where same-sex marriage is
   officially legal. The year marks when the law was first enacted in that
   country.

   PHOTO: Netherlands gfx ABC News
   Netherlands gfx

     * 2000: The Netherlands

   The country became the first in the world to legalize same-sex
   marriage. The following year, four couples married in the world’s first
   same-sex wedding in 2001. [Associated Press]

     * 2003: Belgium

   Three years after the new law was enacted, the country’s parliament
   granted same-sex couples the right to adopt in 2006. [Pew Research
   Center]

     * 2005: Canada

   The nation's traditional definition of civil marriage was changed to
   include the union between same-sex couples. [Pew Research Center]

     * 2005: Spain

   The new law gave same-sex couples all of the same marital and adoption
   rights as heterosexual citizens. [Pew Research Center]

     * 2006: South Africa

   The measure passed by a margin of greater than five-to-one with support
   from major opposing political parties. [Pew Research Center]

     * 2008: Norway

   One year after legalizing same-sex marriage, the country’s Lutheran
   Church voted to allow its pastors to marry same-sex couples in 2009.
   [Pew Research Center]

     * 2009: Sweden

   Months before the bill passed in October 2009, the country’s governing
   church board initiated a petition to permit same-sex marriages. [Pew
   Research Center]

   Pride Story Nick Clegg Quote GMA
   Pride Story Nick Clegg Quote

     * 2010: Argentina

   Argentina was the first country in Latin America to legalize same-sex
   marriage. [Pew Research Center]

     * 2010: Portugal

   Six years after Portugal's parliament legalized same-sex marriage, the
   country granted gay couples the right to adopt. [Reuters]

     * 2010: Iceland

   Iceland legalized same-sex marriage in a unanimous vote. [Pew Research
   Center]

     * 2012: Denmark

   Prior to legalizing same-sex marriage, Denmark was the first country to
   recognize same-sex couples as domestic partners. [Pew Research Center]
     * 2013: Uruguay

   The country’s inclusive legislation of LGBT rights began to attract
   thousands of tourists each year since passing the law to legalize
   same-sex marriage in 2013. [National LGBT Chamber of Commerce]

     * 2013: Brazil

   Over 3,700 marriages took place in 2013 after same-sex marriage was
   legalized. [GLAAD]

     * 2013: New Zealand

   The measure to legalize same-sex marriage in New Zealand won approval
   by a 77-44 margin. [Pew Research Center]

     * 2013: England, Wales

   After the landmark decision was made, former UK Deputy Prime Minister
   Nick Clegg said, "No matter who you are and who you love, we are
   equal." [BBC]

     * 2013: France

   The first same-sex wedding took place in France and was met with great
   applause by the public. [BBC]

     * 2014: Luxembourg

   The new law was the first major reform of the country’s marriage laws
   since 1804. [Pew Research Center]

     * 2014: Scotland

   Three years after the majority of the Scottish Parliament voted to
   legalize same-sex marriage, the Scottish Episcopal Church became the
   UK's first major Christian church to perform same-sex marriages. [BBC]

     * 2015: United States

   The hashtag #LoveWins almost immediately became the number-one trending
   hashtag in the world on Twitter after the U.S. legalized same-sex
   marriage.

     * 2015: Ireland

   Ireland was the first country to legalize same-sex marriage through a
   popular vote. [Pew Research Center]

     * 2015: Finland

   The bill to call for the legislation of same-sex marriage started out
   as a "citizen's initiative" - with a reported 167,000 signatures. [Pew
   Research Center]

     * 2015: Greenland

   The country's legislators passed a bill to legalize same-sex marriage
   on the world's biggest island. [Pew Research Center]

   PHOTO: USA same-sex marriage gfx ABC News
   USA same-sex marriage gfx

     * 2016: Colombia

   The country enacted the new law by a 6-3 vote stating, “All people are
   free to choose independently to start a family in keeping with their
   sexual orientation.” [Pew Research Center]

     * 2017: Malta

   Parliament’s vote to legalize same-sex marriage was nearly unanimous,
   despite criticism from the Catholic Church. [Pew Research Center]

     * 2017: Australia

   The LGBT rights advocates celebrated the new law outside Australia’s
   Parliament House before the final decision was announced.

     * 2017: Germany

   The country’s bill received an overwhelming amount of public support.
   Parliament approved the measure in a 393-226 vote. [Pew Research
   Center]
     * 0 Shares
     *
     *
     *
     * Email
     * Star

   Comments

Add Interests

   Customize your news feed by choosing the topics that interest you.
   To save your interests across all devices Log In or Sign Up »
   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

All of the countries where same-sex marriage is legal

+Olympians Adam Rippon, Gus Kenworthy on what inspires them this Pride Month

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Trump proposes to extend 'Dreamers,' TPS protection for full border wall
funding

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Trump meets with families of soldiers killed in Syria

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Snapchat fires 2 execs after alleged sexual misconduct

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Suspended pairs skating champion John Coughlin dies at 33

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Anxiety in Alaska as endless aftershocks rattle residents

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Winter storm brings 1-2 feet of snow, dangerous drop in temperatures

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

21 dead, 71 burned in fire at illegal tap on Mexico pipeline

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Romney backs Trump in shutdown showdown, questions Pelosi

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Fact Check Friday: Picking fights with Pelosi, prayer rugs and parsing border
crime

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Shutdown hits home for Trump; he lives in government housing

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

White House sets record for time span with no press briefings during Trump
presidency

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Candidacies, committees and criticism. Here's the weekly roundup on the 2020
field.

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

The Note: Democrats marginalizing and ignoring Trump as 2020 heats up

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Trump staffing up to fend off potential primary challenge

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Pence defends wife's teaching job at school that bars gays

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

DNC alleges it was targeted in phishing attack after midterms

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Trump postpones Pelosi's overseas trip after she proposed State of the Union
delay

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Acting attorney general faces questions over speech to conservative group

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

'I never said there was no collusion': Giuliani rants against Mueller
investigation

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s Twitter lesson for House Democrats

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Met Opera offers free tickets to federal employees

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Elon Musk warns 'the road ahead is very difficult' announcing Tesla layoffs

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

American-born, Iranian journalist held as ‘material witness,’ court documents
show

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Federal workers line up for free meals, visit food banks as shutdown hits Day
28

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Thousands expected at memorial for slain California officer

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

15 people have been charged in the Flint water scandal

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

America avoided election hacking in 2018. But are we ready for 2020?

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

US soldier dies from wounds suffered in Afghanistan combat

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

George W. Bush plays pizza delivery man, makes rare political statement

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

'Depth of the horror of family separation is unknown': Congresswoman in
border area

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Largest single group of migrants ever tunnels under border wall: CBP

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Multiple women eyeing 2020 hands Dems 'wonderful challenge'

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Gillibrand, in Iowa, highlights family, children issues

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Watch college athlete find out she's been awarded a full scholarship and tell
her mom

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

'Marvelous Mrs. Maisel' star tests her 1950s hostess etiquette

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Dozens of anti-govt protests in Hungary decry labor changes

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Minnesota mom charged after car seat falls out with child in it

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

'Fit Men Cook' author shares 3 must-try Whole30 recipes

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Comedian releases novel inspired by his Irish roots

   [PrideStory_Embed3_hpEmbed_17x9_992.jpg]

Female high school quarterback throws TD on 1st pass in varsity game

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-13.txt>



   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-W22QHZ9

   Skip to main content

   (BUTTON) Toggle navigation

The Straits Times

Asia

     * Home
     * Singapore
     * Politics
     * Asia
          + East Asia
          + SE Asia
          + South Asia
          + Australia/NZ
     * World
     * Videos
     * Multimedia
          + Photos
          + Graphics
     * Lifestyle
     * Food
     * Forum
          + Letters in Print
          + Letters on the Web
          + Readers' Post
     * Opinion
          + ST Editorial
          + Cartoons
     * Business
          + Companies & Markets
          + Economy
          + Banking
          + Property
          + Invest
          + Market
     * Sport
          + Football
          + Tennis
          + Formula One
          + Basketball
          + Golf
          + Schools
     * Tech
          + Smartphones
          + Tablets
          + PCs
          + Cameras
          + Audio
          + Wearables
          + Games & Apps
     * Games
     * More
          + Multimedia
          + Forum
          + Opinion
          + Business
          + Sport
          + Tech
          + Games

     * SPH Websites
          + news with benefits
          + ST Wine
          + SPH Rewards
          + STJobs
          + STCars
          + STProperty
          + STClassifieds
          + SITES
          + AsiaOne
          + Berita Harian
          + Hardwarezone
          + Lianhe Wanbao
          + omy.sg
          + STOMP
          + SGCarMart
          + ShareInvestor
          + SRX Property
          + tabla
          + Tamil Murasu
          + The Business Times
          + The New Paper
          + zaobao.sg
          + Advertise with us

   (BUTTON)

   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     * Print Edition
     * ePaper
     * ST Index

   (BUTTON)

Taiwan group fighting gay marriage legislation seeks referendum on issue

   Boxes filled with anti-gay marriage petition signatures are placed in
   front of Taiwan's Central Election Commission in Taipei, on Aug 28,
   2018.
   Boxes filled with anti-gay marriage petition signatures are placed in
   front of Taiwan's Central Election Commission in Taipei, on Aug 28,
   2018.PHOTO: AFP

   Published
   Aug 28, 2018, 3:20 pm SGT
   More
   Share Tweet Linkedin Pin Google+ Reddit Print
   Permalink:
   ____________________
   (Submit) Copy

   TAIPEI (AFP) - Conservative campaigners on Tuesday (Aug 28) threw a
   roadblock in the path to legalising same-sex unions in Taiwan,
   proposing a public vote on the issue and saying any reforms would
   jeopardise "family values".

   Taiwan's top court ruled in May 2017 that preventing same-sex marriage
   was unconstitutional and gave a two-year deadline for its legalisation
   - which would make the island the first place in Asia to do so.

   But there has been little progress on the issue since then, with
   President Tsai Ing-wen saying society is still divided on the issue.

   The anti-gay marriage Happiness of the Next Generation Alliance
   submitted a referendum petition to election authorities on Tuesday to
   try to prevent the civil code from being amended to recognise same-sex
   partnerships.

   If successful, the move may instead require a separate law to be
   enacted for civil unions between same-sex couples - a move that gay
   marriage campaigners say would be discriminatory and offer fewer legal
   protections.

   "The bottom line of basic family values shouldn't be overturned,"
   alliance spokesman Tseng Hsien-ying told reporters after the petition
   was brought to the election commission.

   "The collapse of the family system will deal a huge blow to society."

   Last year's court decision did not give specific guidance on how
   same-sex relationships should be legislated.

   Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen has openly supported the legalisation of
   gay marriage, but her majority government has been accused of dragging
   its feet on implementing the change.
   Related Story

Taiwan still divided on gay marriage, says President Tsai Ing-wen


   Related Story

Taiwan holds Asia's largest pride parade; waits for same-sex marriage to be
legalised

   The petition collected more than 678,000 signatures. If vetted and
   approved by the Central Election Commission, the referendum will be
   held to coincide with local elections in November.

   The group said it would also lodge two more petitions with the
   commission later on Tuesday.

   One would remove same-sex education from the school curriculum, while
   the other redefines the civil code's definition of marriage as being
   between a man and a woman.

   The commission said it had a number of other referendum proposals to
   process first and would handle the group's petition later on Tuesday or
   Wednesday.

   Gay rights campaigners are also rushing to gather signatures for their
   own referendum proposal, which would ask the public to vote to enshrine
   same-sex marriage in the civil code.

   "We have to let those in power see very clearly the wishes of the
   people, and we hope they can amend the legislation as soon as
   possible," said Ms Miao Bo-ya, a key activist behind the campaign.

   Referendum proposals in Taiwan are put to a public vote if they are
   supported by 1.5 per cent of the electorate - a little over 280,000
   signatures.

   Plebiscites are legally binding and the government is obliged to
   propose laws that reflect their results.
   Topics:
     * TAIWAN
     * HOMOSEXUALITY/LGBT
     * LAW AND LEGISLATION

   More
   Share Tweet Linkedin Pin Google+ Reddit Print
   Permalink:
   ____________________
   (Submit) Copy

Branded Content

Subscribe to The Straits Times

   call 6388-3838 or click here
   Available for
   iPhones and iPads
   Available in
   Google Play

   Back to the top [arrow-up.svg]

     * Singapore
     * Politics
     * Asia

     * World
     * Videos
     * Multimedia

     * Lifestyle
     * Food
     * Forum

     * Opinion
     * Business
     * Sport

     * Tech
     * Games

Follow ST

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

The Straits Times

   Terms & ConditionsData Protection PolicyNeed help? Reach us
   here.Advertise with us

   SPH Digital News / Copyright © 2018 Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. Co.
   Regn. No. 198402868E. All rights reserved

   We have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and
   apologise for the inconvenience caused. Until we resolve the issues,
   subscribers need not log in to access ST Digital articles. But a log-in
   is still required for our PDFs.
   (BUTTON) Close

   [pixel?mid=00529a8e9e01c3bfad3c4bd7ec1ab148f6]

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-14.txt>

   #alternate

   Skip to content

   Your browser does not support JavaScript, or it is disabled．Please
   check the site policy for more information.

   The Asahi Shimbun | Asia & Japan Watch
     *

       ____________________ Search

     * Twitter
     * Facebook

   Language
     * 日本語
     * English
     * 繁体字
     * 簡体字

     * TOP
     * Japan News
          + Social Affairs
          + 3/11 Disaster
          + People
          + Sci & Tech
     * Politics
     * Business
     * Sports
     * Culture
          + Style
          + Movies
          + Manga & Anime
     * Travel
     * Asia
          + China
          + Korean Peninsula
          + Around Asia
     * Opinion
          + Editorial
          + Vox Populi
          + Views
     * Special

   The Asahi Shimbun
   >

   Politics
   >

   article
     * Politics

Lawmaker’s ‘no’ to gay marriage as sexuality is a ‘matter of taste’

   By YUKI NIKAIDO/ Staff Writer

   August 2, 2018 at 15:30 JST
     * Share 0
     * Tweet list

     * Print

   Photo/Illutration Tomu Tanigawa (Asahi Shimbun file photo)

   A ruling Liberal Democratic Party lawmaker on Aug. 1 defended his view
   expressed on an Internet TV show that gay marriage should not be
   legalized because sexual orientation is a matter of “taste.”

   Tomu Tanigawa made the remarks while appearing as a panelist on a
   debate show broadcast July 29 on Abema TV.

   In an Aug. 1 written response to an interview request made by The Asahi
   Shimbun on July 31, Tanigawa said, “What I meant was that it is
   difficult to accept same-sex marriage under Article 24 of the
   Constitution that states ‘marriage shall be based only on the mutual
   consent of both sexes.’”

   Tanigawa, 42, a Buddhist priest who has been voted into office twice by
   the Kinki electorate under the proportional representation system, also
   wrote, “I did not intend to discriminate against LGBT (lesbian, gay,
   bisexual and transgender) people, nor do I deny diversity.”

   In the debate show, panelist Hirotada Ototake, a bestselling author,
   raised questions over how the government is stubbornly refusing to
   allow married couples to legally retain different surnames and the
   legalization of same-sex marriage.

   Tanigawa responded that he “does not deny sexual diversity,” but also
   believes “there is no need to legalize same-sex marriage” because
   choosing whether to love someone of the same sex or opposite sex is a
   “matter of taste.”

   He then elaborated on the reason he believes only heterosexual marriage
   should be legally allowed.

   “A man and a woman get married, and have children. That is how a
   traditional family is formed,” said Tanigawa. “Humans have been doing
   so from antiquity to fend off nations’ decline and ruin.”

   Tanigawa’s comments are at odds with a booklet published by the LDP to
   be distributed within the party to raise awareness on sexual minority
   issues. The booklet warns readers that “there is widespread
   misunderstanding that (being a sexual minority) is a matter of
   individual will, taste or preference.”

   The contentious remarks came only days after Mio Sugita, another LPD
   lawmaker, drew criticism for her anti-gay remarks in a magazine article
   she wrote. Sugita said gay couples are “unproductive” because they
   cannot produce children and, therefore, do not contribute to prosperity
   of the nation.
     * Share 0
     * Tweet list

     * Print

   Related News
     * U.S. government shutdown delays start of trade talks with Japan
       January 19, 2019
     * Ministry admits to losing or discarding years of labor data January
       18, 2019
     * Budget proposal redone to clean up mess from dodgy labor data
       January 18, 2019
     * 80 billion yen needed to cover unpaid benefits in stats scandal
       January 17, 2019
     * Russia calls on Japan to recognize outcome of World War II January
       17, 2019

     *
     *

What's New

          DJ SumiRock, at 83, still lights up the club scene in Kabukicho

          Indonesia cleric to be freed despite holding to radicalism

          Gunmen kill two Buddhist monks in Thailand's troubled south

   Light and Darkness brought by Carlos Ghosn

Recommended

     * Photo

        The Paradise Papers
                Featured here are videos, photos and graphics on how
                journalists dug into documents leaked from Bermuda and
                elsewhere to uncover shady transactions through tax
                havens.

     * Photo

        Transform through SDGs
                Here are reports about efforts in Japan and abroad to
                achieve the U.N. sustainable development goals.

     * Photo

        Chasing Haruki Murakami
                Here are news reports and feature stories that keep you up
                to date on author Haruki Murakami.

     * Photo

        360-DEGREE LIVES
                You can view videos of animals as interactive images that
                allow you to pan and zoom in to them.

Videos

     * Photo
       Tokyo joins Kobe in mourning victims of 1995 Hanshin quake
     * Photo
       Epsilon-4 takes shooting star show experiment into outer space
     * Photo
       360-DEGREE LIVES: Red lionfish may be ‘lady of the sea,’ but its
       sting packs venom

   Asahi Shimbun on Twitter

Learning English

     * Asahi Weekly

   In-house News and Messages

Link

     * The New York Times

   BACK TO TOP
     * About Us
     * Site Policy
     * Privacy
     * Copyright
     * Contact Us

   Copyright © The Asahi Shimbun Company. All rights reserved. No
   reproduction or republication without written permission.

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-16.txt>

   #publisher

   [tr?id=1570461443220689&ev=PageView&noscript=1]

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P5L2Z5Z

   The Texas Tribune
     * Our Picks
     * Data
     * Events
     * Newsletters
     * Donate

     *
     * (Submit)

     * (Submit)  Menu
     * (Submit)  Close

   (Submit) ____________________ (BUTTON)

   (Submit) ____________________
     * Our Picks
     * Data
     * Events
     * Newsletters
     * Donate
     *

Gay marriage

More Topics

     *
     * 1
     * 2
     * 3
     * …
     * 8
     * next

   [Lawrence_Katine_Garner_REUTERS_TT.jpg]
   [Lawrence_Katine_Garner_REUTERS_TT.jpg]
   REUTERS/Carlos A. Martinez

Fifteen years after landmark gay rights case, same-sex couples in Texas still
face challenges in court

   by Emma Platoff and Sydney Greene June 26, 2018

   On June 26, 2003, the Supreme Court struck down a Texas law banning gay
   sodomy — a watershed moment for gay rights. But 15 years later,
   same-sex couples face another court case that aims to roll back their
   rights.
   Full Story
   [Rainbow_Flag_and_Elephant.jpg] [Rainbow_Flag_and_Elephant.jpg]
   Getty Images/iStockphoto

Analysis: Texas GOP ignores young voters with LGBT snub

   by Ross Ramsey April 11, 2018

   With its vote to deny the Log Cabin Republicans a booth at the GOP
   state convention, the State Republican Executive Committee might be
   drawing a line with the younger voters it hopes to attract.
   Full Story
   [TxTrib-GayWedding_017.JPG] [TxTrib-GayWedding_017.JPG]
   Tamir Kalifa

Houston looks to Supreme Court to resolve same-sex marriage benefits fight

   by Alexa Ura Sept. 18, 2017

   The city of Houston is asking the U.S. Supreme Court to review a
   decision by the Texas Supreme Court in which it suggested a landmark
   ruling legalizing same-sex marriage does not fully address the right to
   marriage benefits.
   Full Story
   [TexasSupremeCourtBuildingTT.jpg] [TexasSupremeCourtBuildingTT.jpg]

What the Texas Supreme Court decided — and didn't — in its 2017 term

   by Emma Platoff June 30, 2017

   After 10 months and 81 decisions, the Texas Supreme Court wrapped up
   its 2017 term on Friday. Here's a look back at what the nine justices
   decided — and didn't.
   Full Story
   [TTE-tribcast_leadart.png] [TTE-tribcast_leadart.png]
   Emily Albracht / Todd Wiseman

Same-sex benefits, teacher pay raises and Dawnna Dukes (podcast)

   by Emily Ramshaw and Todd Wiseman June 30, 2017

   On this week's TribCast, Emily talks to Evan, Ross and Patrick about
   the state Supreme Court's same-sex benefits ruling, Gov. Greg Abbott's
   plan for teacher pay raises and state Rep. Dawnna Dukes' not-guilty
   plea in court.
   Full Story
   [TxTrib-GayWedding_014.JPG] [TxTrib-GayWedding_014.JPG]
   Tamir Kalifa

Court throws out ruling that favored same-sex marriage benefits

   by Alexa Ura June 30, 2017

   The Texas Supreme Court on Friday threw out a lower court ruling that
   said spouses of gay and lesbian public employees are entitled to
   government-subsidized same-sex marriage benefits.
   Full Story
   [TT-UT-Bathrooms-003.jpg] [TT-UT-Bathrooms-003.jpg]
   Jacob Villanueva/The Texas Tribune

UT/TT Poll: Texas voters weigh in on importance of "bathroom bill"

   by Ross Ramsey June 19, 2017

   Most Texas voters don't rate proposals to regulate transgender people's
   use of public restrooms as an important issue, according to the latest
   University of Texas/Texas Tribune Poll.
   Full Story
   [_BDB8695CleoNicole1.jpg] [_BDB8695CleoNicole1.jpg]
   Bob Daemmrich

Texas on the hook for $600,000 after conceding same-sex marriage case

   by Alexa Ura April 19, 2017

   A federal appeals court this week ordered the state to pay more than
   $600,000 in legal fees to two same-sex marriage couples who sued Texas
   over its now-defunct same-sex marriage ban.
   Full Story
   [041417_Still.jpg] [041417_Still.jpg]

Texas' voter ID law again takes a hit in the courts (video)

   by Alana Rocha April 14, 2017

   Asked to re-evaluate the state’s voter ID law, a federal judge rules
   for the second time that state lawmakers intentionally discriminated
   against Latino and black voters in passing the strict law.
   Full Story
   [TxTrib-GayWedding_017.JPG] [TxTrib-GayWedding_017.JPG]
   Tamir Kalifa

Senate approves recusals for county clerks, judges objecting to same-sex
marriage

   by Alexa Ura April 11, 2017

   Under a Senate-backed proposal, county clerks with religious objections
   to same-sex marriages can recuse themselves from signing marriage
   licenses.
   Full Story
   [TxTrib-GayWedding_014.JPG] [TxTrib-GayWedding_014.JPG]
   Tamir Kalifa

After GOP appeal, Texas Supreme Court agrees to take up same-sex marriage
case

   by Alexa Ura Jan. 20, 2017

   The Texas Supreme Court reversed course and agreed to take up a case
   involving benefits for married same-sex couples after Republican
   leaders urged the court to reconsider its earlier decision to let a
   lower court decision stand.
   Full Story
   [Anti_Abortion_SCOTUS2TT.jpg] [Anti_Abortion_SCOTUS2TT.jpg]
   Kevin Lamarque/REUTERS

Analysis: Anti-Regulation Party in Texas Has a Strong Taste for Rules

   by Ross Ramsey June 28, 2016

   Monday's Supreme Court ruling against two key provisions of the state's
   anti-abortion law was the latest setback for a band of Republicans who
   abhor regulatory constraints on business but who regularly try to
   control the behavior of individuals in Texas.
   Full Story
   [TxTrib-GayWedding_014.JPG] [TxTrib-GayWedding_014.JPG]
   Tamir Kalifa

A Year Later, Texas Gay Marriage Debate Shifts

   by Madeline Conway June 26, 2016

   Hundreds of gay couples across Texas are reaching their one-year
   wedding anniversaries, but resistance to same-sex marriage hasn’t gone
   away, it’s just changed focus.
   Full Story
   [Screenshot_2016-06-12_10.26.47.png]
   [Screenshot_2016-06-12_10.26.47.png]

Analysis: Reaction to Patrick’s Tweet is Based on a History of Hostility

   by Ross Ramsey June 13, 2016

   Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick is under fire for his comments after the shootings
   in a gay nightclub in Orlando, and he can only blame himself. His
   problem isn’t his intent; his problem is that his other actions of late
   made his critics’ worst suspicions plausible.
   Full Story
   [marriage.png] [marriage.png]
   Joe Deshotel

Court Ends Challenge to State's First Legal Same-Sex Marriage License

   by Alexa Ura April 15, 2016

   The Texas Supreme Court on Friday tossed out Attorney General Ken
   Paxton’s effort to undo the union of the first gay couple to legally
   wed in Texas.
   Full Story
   [TT-god-lead-revisit.png] [TT-god-lead-revisit.png]
   Justin Dehn

Revisit Our God & Governing Series

   by Texas Tribune Staff March 18, 2016

   In the 2015 Texas legislative session, state lawmakers frequently used
   their religious beliefs to defend their policymaking. Take a look back
   at "God & Governing," our documentary-style series on the role
   lawmakers' personal faith played in their legislating.
   Full Story
   [_CMS_ACLUpress0236_Hoffman.jpg] [_CMS_ACLUpress0236_Hoffman.jpg]
   Bob Daemmrich

Senate Republicans Zero in on Religious Freedom Bills

   by Alexa Ura Feb. 17, 2016

   The next Texas legislative session is almost a year away, but Senate
   Republicans are already zeroing in on proposals to bolster legal
   protections for religious opponents of same-sex marriage.
   Full Story
   [TT-2015-yearinreview_socialtraffic-lead.png]
   [TT-2015-yearinreview_socialtraffic-lead.png]

Loyalty Oaths, Jade Helm, Sandra Bland are Most-Read Trib Stories of 2015

   by Rodney Gibbs Dec. 31, 2015

   This year, Tribune readers flocked to our coverage of some of Texas’ –
   and the nation’s – most controversial topics. Check out our most
   popular news stories of 2015, on everything from gay marriage to Jade
   Helm.
   Full Story
   [_S3R7369hug.jpg] [_S3R7369hug.jpg]
   Bob Daemmrich

A New Governor, Gay Weddings and Gun Rallies: 2015 in Photos

   by Shelby Knowles Dec. 26, 2015

   Take a look at the top Texas Tribune images of 2015, which show
   everything from Greg Abbott being sworn in as governor to Capitol
   rallies supporting and opposing Planned Parenthood to the vibrant
   landscapes of Texas.
   Full Story
   [McClellan_resize_1.jpg] [McClellan_resize_1.jpg]
   Screen grab

Video: Same-Sex Couples Struggle with Immigration

   by Alana Rocha and Justin Dehn Nov. 21, 2015

   Months after the Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage, some Texas
   couples are still working to get their spousal immigration benefits
   realized. They're finding that legal matrimony doesn't always lead to
   citizenship.
   Full Story
     *
     * 1
     * 2
     * 3
     * …
     * 8
     * next

Be a citizen,
not a spectator.

   Support independent, fact-based journalism. Donate to our 501(c)(3)
   nonprofit newsroom.

Donate today by visiting:

   texastribune.org/donate
   The Texas Tribune thanks its sponsors.
   The Texas Tribune thanks its sponsors.

     * Donate
     * Contact Us
     * Advertise
     * © 2019 The Texas Tribune

Topics

     * Congress
     * Courts
     * Criminal justice
     * Demographics
     * Economy
     * Energy
     * Environment
     * Health care
     * Higher education
     * Immigration
     * Politics
     * Public education
     * State government

Info

     * About Us
     * Our Staff
     * Who Funds Us?
     * Strategic Plan
     * Republishing Guidelines
     * Code of Ethics
     * Terms of Service
     * Privacy Policy
     * Send us a confidential tip
     * Corrections
     * Feeds
     * Newsletters
     * Video

Social Media

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * YouTube
     * Instagram
     * LinkedIn
     * Reddit
     * Join our Facebook Group, This Is Your Texas.

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-17.txt>

   #alternate alternate alternate alternate publisher

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-W9SLGS

   (Submit) Discover Thomson Reuters
   FinancialGovernment SolutionsLegalReuters News AgencyRisk Management
   SolutionsTax & AccountingBlog: Answers OnInnovation @ Thomson Reuters
   Directory of sites
   Login
   Contact
   Support
     * World
     * Business
     * Markets
     * Politics
     * TV

   ____________________
   (Submit) (Submit)
   (BUTTON)
   Brexit
   The Z Factor
   Imprisoned In Myanmar
   CES
   Breakingviews
   Future of Money
   World At Work

   World News
   July 21, 2018 / 5:23 PM / in 6 months

Cuba's draft constitution opens path to gay marriage

   Sarah Marsh

   3 Min Read

   HAVANA (Reuters) - The draft of Cuba’s new constitution opens the path
   to same-sex marriage, a government official said on Saturday, which
   would make the country that once persecuted homosexuals an unlikely
   leader in lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights.
   [?m=02&amp;d=20180721&amp;t=2&amp;i=1285701455&amp;r=LYNXMPEE6K0NE&amp;
   w=20]
   A cat climbs the stairs as a placard opposing gay marriage is seen on a
   wall in Havana, Cuba, July 19, 2018. REUTERS/Stringer

   In the early years of Fidel Castro’s 1959 revolution, many homosexuals
   were sent to correctional labor camps, part of an institutionalized
   homophobia for which Castro later apologized.

   Yet Communist-run Cuba has made great strides over the past decade on
   LGBT rights, approving sex-change operations and banning workplace
   discrimination, partly thanks to the high-profile advocacy of Castro’s
   niece Mariela Castro.

   Proposals to recognize same-sex unions had stalled in view of the slow
   legislative process and lingering stigma in the macho society.

   That will start to change with the new constitution that will replace
   Cuba’s 1976 Soviet-era Magna Carta, the secretary of the council of
   state, Homero Acosta, told lawmakers on Saturday.

   The draft, elaborated by a commission headed by former President Raul
   Castro - Mariela Castro’s father - defines matrimony as between two
   individuals rather than between a man and a woman, he said.

   “The possibility of marriage between two people strengthens our
   project’s principles of equality and justice,” Acosta told lawmakers,
   adding that further legal changes would be needed to allow for gay
   marriage.

   The move reflects a trend in Latin America where same-sex couples have
   been allowed to marry in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Uruguay and some
   parts of Mexico in recent years, despite church opposition.

   The battle has not yet been won however, Cuban LGBT rights activist
   Isbel Diaz Torres cautioned on social media.

   While the national assembly is expected to approve the draft
   constitution this weekend, it will then be submitted to a popular
   consultation, and final draft will be put to a national referendum.

   “We will continue in the streets until the final process of the
   constitutional reform,” said Diaz Torres. “And after the constitutional
   modification has been approved, we must ensure that same sex marriage
   is approved.”

   Grassroots campaigns for and against gay marriage have made it the most
   broadly debated proposed constitutional modification.

   Five evangelical denominations shared a statement on social media last
   month declaring marriage “exclusively the union of a man and a woman,
   according to the Bible.”

   Churches also plastered neighborhoods with anti gay marriage posters
   such as one reading “I am in favor of the original design - the family
   as God created it,” showing a heterosexual couple with a boy and a
   girl.

   LGBT rights activists fought back with their own posters such as one
   reading “I am in favor of Cuban design - a very original family,”
   showing a panoply of different family configurations including same-sex
   unions.

   Reporting by Sarah Marsh, Nelson Acosta and Marc Frank in Havana,
   Editing by Franklin Paul and Nick Zieminski
   Our Standards:The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
   0 : 0
     * narrow-browser-and-phone
     * medium-browser-and-portrait-tablet
     * landscape-tablet
     * medium-wide-browser
     * wide-browser-and-larger
     * medium-browser-and-landscape-tablet
     * medium-wide-browser-and-larger
     * above-phone
     * portrait-tablet-and-above
     * above-portrait-tablet
     * landscape-tablet-and-above
     * landscape-tablet-and-medium-wide-browser
     * portrait-tablet-and-below
     * landscape-tablet-and-below

     * Apps
     * Newsletters
     * Advertise with Us
     * Advertising Guidelines
     * Cookies
     * Terms of Use
     * Privacy

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete
   list of exchanges and delays.

   © 2019 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-18.txt>

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-N8CVZ65

   ERROR
   Main Error Mesage Here
   More detailed message would go here to provide context for the user and
   how to proceed
   OKAY
   ERROR
   Main Error Mesage Here
   More detailed message would go here to provide context for the user and
   how to proceed
   CANCEL CONFIRM

City Journal

   search
   City Journal is a publication of Manhattan Institute

Search

   ____________________ search

Experts

     * Heather Mac Donald

Topics

     * Health Care

Publications

     * Health in New York
     * Heat Infrastructure
     * Heart of US Economics

On the Ground

     * Health in New York
     * Heat Infrastructure
     * Heart of US Economics

Projects

     * Health in New York
     * Heat Infrastructure
     * Heart of US Economics

     * The Magazine
     * Topics
          + Arts & Culture
          + California
          + Cities
          + Economy, Finance, Budgets
          + Education
          + Health Care
          + Infrastructure & Energy
          + New York
          + Politics & Law
          + Public Safety
          + Technology & Innovation
          + The Social Order
          + Texas
          + Other
     * Contributors
     * Books
     * Multimedia
     * All Publications
     * About
     * Praise
     * Subscribe

City Journal

   search
   [logo-print.svg]
   Close Nav

Search

   Close Search
   ____________________ search
   Share this article on Facebook Twitter Google Plus Close

Gay Marriage vs. American Marriage

   Share
   from the magazine

Gay Marriage vs. American Marriage

   The gay advocates’ civil rights argument forgets what the Founders
   thought marriage is for.
   Kay S. Hymowitz
   Summer 2004
   Other
   The Social Order

   These days everyone has a strong opinion about marriage, but no one
   seems to be sure what it is, exactly. Is it a sacramental union? Is it
   a public recognition of a committed love relationship? Is it a state
   scheme for distributing health insurance and tax breaks? Or given what
   two eminent anthropologists writing recently in support of gay marriage
   in the Washington Post describe as a "startling diversity of socially
   approved forms of marriage," is the institution too varied to fit into
   a single, dictionary-neat meaning?

   The anthropologists are right about one thing: human beings have come
   up with almost as many ways of getting hitched as they have languages
   to tell mother-in-law jokes. Some cultures allow only monogamous
   marriage; some accept polygamy. In many cultures, the wife moves into
   her husband's family's home; in others, the husband moves into the
   wife's; in still others, they get a mortgage and move into their own
   two-bedroom ranch in Levittown. Though most cultures give husbands the
   primary responsibility for providing for the children, some make the
   wife's brother—the baby's uncle—responsible for providing the food and
   the bow-and-arrow lessons. Some cultures don't allow divorce; some
   allow divorce but not remarriage; some allow divorce if husbands fork
   over most of their life savings to the likes of Raoul Felder; and
   others let a guy say "I divorce you" three times before booting his
   wife out the door.

   This protean diversity is central to today's marriage debate. If
   marriage is, as these examples suggest, an eminently malleable social
   construct, why shouldn't society shape it any way it likes, especially
   by letting gays marry each other?

   But beneath all the diversity, marriage has always had a fundamental,
   universal core that makes gay marriage a non sequitur: it has always
   governed property and inheritance rights; it has always been the means
   of establishing paternity, legitimacy, and the rights and
   responsibilities of parenthood; and because these goals involve bearing
   and raising children, it has always involved (at least one) man and
   woman. What's more, among the "startling diversity" of variations that
   different cultures have elaborated on this fundamental core, our own
   culture has produced a specifically American ideal of marriage that is
   inseparable from our vision of free citizenship and is deeply embedded
   in our history, politics, economics, and culture. Advocates for gay
   marriage cite the historical evolution of that ideal—which we might
   call republican marriage—to bolster their case, arguing that gay unions
   are a natural extension of America's dedication to civil rights and to
   individual freedom. But a look at that history is enough to cast
   serious doubt on the advocates' case.

   Strange as it seems, America's founding thinkers were as interested in
   the subject of marriage as any of Fox TV's bachelorettes. Given the
   political experiment that they were designing, they had good reason,
   for they understood the basic sociological truth that familial
   relations both echo and shape the political order. "To the institution
   of marriage the true origin of society must be traced," James Wilson, a
   member of the Continental Congress and later a Supreme Court justice,
   wrote in 1790. Before the Revolutionary War, legal philosophers and
   statesmen like Wilson filled magazines and speeches with discussions of
   what kind of marriage would best live up to the principles of the new
   country. It's not surprising that they zeroed in on one quality in
   particular: self-government.

   The Founders did not sketch their ideas about marriage on a blank
   slate, of course. They brought to their task a set of traditional
   Western assumptions about the institution, and these assumptions
   remained implicit in their new ideal and still resurface in our current
   discussions. Given that marriage was originally a religious sacrament,
   the Founders understood that the institution retained, even in their
   secular republic, an element of spirituality, an assertion that man is
   something higher than the beasts and more than a merely material being.
   The ceremony confers a special, human dignity upon our relations. In
   addition, they understood that marriage is a contract, regulated by the
   laws and ultimately enforceable by the state, that spells out property
   relations between the spouses, as well as their inheritance rights and
   those of their children. Therefore, marriage is intrinsically a
   government concern.

   In addition to these time-honored beliefs, the Founders brought a more
   modern idea to the matrimonial drafting table. Like many of their
   educated contemporaries in Western Europe, they had come to think of
   marriage in a way congruent with emerging ideals of individual liberty
   and democratic equality. In the old world, marriage was originally a
   matter of caste, class, or clan. Courtship was closer in spirit to
   bartering than romance; young people were to be traded off by elders
   intent on solidifying family ties and merging family fortunes and
   acres.

   By the late eighteenth century, however, Western Europeans were
   increasingly emphasizing marriage as a love-match between two
   self-determining individuals. Young people were free to choose for
   themselves with whom to spend their lives, and love could transcend
   class barriers to recognize the intrinsic personal worth of the
   beloved. This is the lesson of the profoundly democratic novels of
   Samuel Richardson and Charlotte Brontë, in which the drama concerns a
   rich, well-born master coming to realize that he loves his servant,
   that she is a character of sterling worth, and that he should marry
   rather than merely seduce her. In the same vein, the novels of Jane
   Austen dramatize what she understood was turning into one of life's
   most momentous, morally fraught decisions. For if the young could
   freely choose their own spouses, they needed to do so wisely,
   transcending mere sexual attraction and judging their suitors' worth in
   the moral rather than economic sense. Even so, at the time of the
   Founding, these modern ideas were still more theory than practice in
   Europe, where arranged marriages remained the norm.

   The Founders wanted to clear away many of the traditions that had kept
   these democratic notions from taking firm hold in old Europe. American
   marriage would reflect American principles of liberty and
   self-government. Unlike the hordes of serfs, servants, and subjects in
   other parts of the world, American citizens were going to shape their
   own lives and determine their country's destiny. Just as citizens would
   be self-governing in the political realm, they would also choose their
   spouses freely. According to Nancy F. Cott's Public Vows: A History of
   Marriage and the Nation, the source for much of the history of marriage
   in America that follows, since the struggle against domination and
   coercion was the essence of the American nation, the young needed to be
   free from arranged marriages and the authoritarian fathers who
   contracted them. As historian Jay Fliegelman has observed, the American
   Revolution and the new Western seriousness about romantic love, which
   developed at the same time, both sprang from a heightened valuation of
   the ideal of self-determination.

   Essential as it was, the loving, self-chosen vow was only one
   ingredient in the recipe for self-government. Self-government also
   meant citizenly self-reliance. The Founders believed that American
   citizens should not only be allowed to run their own lives but should
   be capable of doing so and responsible for doing so. In order to be
   free from "authority in all its guises," as Jefferson put it, citizens
   had to be competent, industrious, self-sufficient, and virtuous. All
   these qualities were to be learned in the republican home: "The
   foundations of national morality must be laid in private families,"
   John Adams wrote in his diary in 1778.

   Here Adams was voicing an up-to-the-minute theory of the republican
   family. Political thinkers imagined the American family as a factory
   specifically designed to turn out self-governing citizens—something
   quite different from what other kinds of families did. They believed
   that the affectionate ties between spouses led to civic responsibility:
   marriage based on individual choice would promote trust and equality
   that could then be projected into public life. "In detaching us from
   self, [love] accustoms us to attach ourselves the more to others. . . .
   [T]he lover becomes a husband, a parent, a citizen," a 1791 essay in
   New-York Magazine put it. In addition, the Founders recognized, the
   colonists' pioneer past had already made the American family an
   unusually and dependably self-reliant and industrious unit, just as
   later, when the nation expanded westward, the frontier family became a
   byword for rugged and indomitable self-sufficiency.

   Most important, republican marriage provided the edifice in which
   couples would care for and socialize their children to meet the demands
   of the new political order. If republican marriage celebrated
   self-government, it also had to pass down its principles to the young;
   it was supposed to perpetuate as well as to embody the habits of
   freedom. So whereas in all Western societies, the state concerns itself
   with fostering the institution of the family because it is the
   mechanism by which the society reproduces itself, in America that state
   concern takes on a special urgency, because of child rearing's unique
   momentousness to the national project.

   The small size of American families helped here. As any soccer mom or
   dad knows, parents with two or three children can invest far more
   attention in each individual child than those with eight or ten. By the
   Jacksonian period, the size of American families began to shrink.
   According to Janet Brodie's Contraception and Abortion in
   Nineteenth-Century America, the number of children born to white
   native-born women decreased 49 percent in the nineteenth century, from
   an average of seven children in 1800 to 3.6 by 1900.

   Demographers usually explain the decline in fertility as the result of
   improvements in infant mortality rates and a shift away from a strictly
   agrarian economy, in which large families were an advantage, but it's
   also likely that republican parents were discovering that preparing
   children for self-government was a mammoth undertaking, more demanding
   than socializing children to thrive in more communal societies.

   Early republican child-rearing experts emphasized to American parents
   that they were responsible for creating independent, industrious, and
   resourceful future citizens. American children should be brought up to
   be active, observant thinkers. "All the faculties of a child's mind
   should be cultivated," wrote Lydia Child in Mother's Book; kids should
   develop "habits of attention and activity of mind."

   American theorists also encouraged parents to abandon the demand for
   absolute, fearful obedience that was a relic of the old world. Children
   preparing for life in the new country could not remain mere passive
   subjects within an old-world patriarchal family. Whippings and
   beatings, commonplace throughout much of the world, were to be used
   only as a last resort; punishment "should be threatened as seldom as
   possible, and next as seldom executed as possible," clergyman and child
   expert Horace Bushnell wrote in 1849. This kinder, gentler discipline
   was designed to get children to behave virtuously because they had
   internalized national values, not because they feared either external
   authority or the shame they would bring on their families.

   To hear foreign travelers of the early nineteenth century tell it, the
   republican couple maintaining the homestead or going to church with its
   republican offspring was noticeably different—though admittedly, there
   was a downside. British naval officer and author Captain Frederick
   Marryat wrote of a scene that he witnessed during a visit to the United
   States in 1839. He watched a three-year-old named Johnny, whose mother
   had called him to come in out of the cold. "I won't!" the boy answered.
   "Come, my sweet, I've something for you," his mother implored. "I
   won't," Johnny pouted. His father took the more patriarchal approach
   and ordered his son inside. "I won't," the child insisted yet again. "A
   sturdy republican!" the father exclaimed, smiling, to the captain, who,
   being from the old world, was standing aghast.

   The Founders probably didn't foresee republican children quite like
   Johnny, but such "sturdiness" may have been inevitable in families in
   which the young had some freedom to question authority. Marryat may
   have been disdainful, but other European observers of the new world,
   including Alexis de Tocqueville, were impressed by the egalitarian,
   youthful spirit of the American family, which they contrasted with
   their own stuffy, patriarchal households. Unlike "the respectful and
   frigid observances of aristocratic families," Tocqueville observed,
   democratic families enjoy a "familiar intimacy, which renders authority
   less absolute. . . . [A] species of equality prevails around the
   domestic hearth." The new political order was placing unprecedented
   emphasis on individual rights, personal choice, and equality; the new
   domestic order appeared to be doing the same.

   You won't hear much about this historical background in the current
   debate over gay marriage, but advocates certainly invoke fragments of
   the American past in their argument. They frequently compare the
   current predicament of gays with that of other minorities, particularly
   African Americans, in the days before they had full rights to marriage.
   History, they argue, shows us that marriage is a civil right that has
   expanded over time to include previously marginalized groups; gays now
   deserve those rights as well. "Throughout the history of Massachusetts,
   marriage has been in a state of change," a group of historians of
   marriage, family, and the law asserted in an amicus brief in the case
   that legalized gay marriage in the state. Gay marriage "represents the
   logical next step in this court's long tradition of reforming marriage
   to fit the evolving nature of committed intimate relationships and the
   rights of the individuals in those relationships." But detaching the
   "tradition of reforming marriage" from the multifaceted tradition of
   republican marriage not only starts history around 1968, but it also
   presents a seriously distorted picture of why the American government
   is in the marriage business at all.

   While gays often invoke the black/homosexual analogy to assert in a
   general way that anti-homosexual sentiments are as vicious and
   irrational as racism, gay-marriage advocates use the comparison much
   more specifically. Their most commonly repeated argument goes like
   this: denying homosexuals the right to marry whom they wish is little
   different from denying blacks the right to marry whites, an injustice
   written into many state law books well into the twentieth century. It
   was not until 1967 that the Supreme Court, in Loving v. Virginia,
   finally ruled that state bans on such intermarriage were a violation of
   the Fourteenth Amendment's equal-protection clause. "Marriage is one of
   the basic civil rights of man," Chief Justice Earl Warren wrote in his
   decision, in words that have become a familiar refrain in the current
   debate. The court rested its decision on one important pillar in the
   sophisticated architecture of republican marriage: that marriage is a
   civil contract. If the Fourteenth Amendment protects the right of black
   citizens to enter into a mortgage agreement or take out a car loan, it
   certainly protects their right to marry whomever they choose. It is
   logically inescapable, gay-marriage advocates conclude, that the same
   goes for homosexuals.

   And it would be logical—if a pillar were the same thing as the whole
   building. That the state has an interest in upholding the civil rights
   of individuals who want to marry doesn't mean that that's the only
   interest it has in the institution. The state also has a strong—even a
   life-and-death—interest in marriage as the environment in which the
   next generation of its citizens is raised.

   An earlier chapter in the history of African-American marriage
   illustrates this point. After the Civil War, anti-slavery Republicans
   were alarmed by the promiscuity and rampant fatherlessness among
   ex-slaves, disastrous consequences of the institution's prohibition
   against slaves entering into marriage contracts. These abolitionists
   created the Freedmen's Bureau, in part as a federal marriage
   initiative: they wanted to encourage ex-slaves to marry and create
   stable families. Their aim wasn't primarily to ensure the civil right
   of blacks to enter into contracts of all sorts, including marriage;
   they believed, above all, that American-style marriage would help
   ex-slaves become responsible, self-reliant citizens who would rear
   responsible, self-reliant children. In light of this dual state
   concern—the rights of the couple and the promotion of self-governing
   families that would mirror and sustain the republic—the historical
   analogy between black marriage and gay marriage that the advocates
   posit makes no sense.

   In fact, gay-marriage proponents generally treat children as a
   distraction from the state's interest in marriage rather than crucial
   to it. They impatiently insist that history has settled the matter: it
   has definitively separated child rearing and marriage, demonstrating
   conclusively that marriage is a changing and elastic institution that
   can easily accommodate homosexuals. "When a third of children are born
   out of wedlock, when contraception and abortion are available on
   demand, when you have single-parent adoption legal in every state,"
   Jonathan Rauch, the author of the recent Gay Marriage, has opined, "the
   debate is over about detaching marriage from parenthood—indeed was over
   years ago." Andrew Sullivan, along with Rauch one of the most
   thoughtful and eloquent advocates writing today, agrees: the argument
   that marriage has anything to do with children, he says, "fails
   socially and culturally because in our culture at this time,
   procreation is not understood to be an essential part of what it is to
   be married."

   But it's worth considering just how recently—and how
   haphazardly—Americans closed "the debate . . . about detaching marriage
   from parenthood." For most of American history, republican marriage
   remained the reigning paradigm: a self-reliant and child-centered
   couple, who had freely chosen each other in a spirit of equality and
   mutual affection and who would pass on to their young not just property
   but also the qualities needed to live in freedom. That reign only came
   to an end in the late 1960s as divorce laws loosened and Americans
   began pulling off their wedding rings at record rates.

   Divorce is such a conundrum for the nation because it follows directly
   from American principles even while threatening to subvert them. During
   the Revolutionary era, marriage theorists understood that a nation that
   loves liberty had to tolerate some divorce; if it was a matter of
   principle that you chose to enter into wedlock, it was also a matter of
   principle that you had to have some way of choosing to get out, at
   least under some circumstances. A number of early writers—including
   Thomas Paine, whose problems with Mrs. Paine gave him a personal stake
   in the issue—urged Americans to take a tolerant approach toward the
   practice. Still, even though divorce was more accepted in this country
   than in many parts of the world, it remained rare, a last resort and
   one that worried people deeply. That was no longer the case by the late
   1960s, when squeamishness on the subject evaporated, the marital exit
   door flew open, and not only the battered and the miserable but also
   the merely unfulfilled came pouring out.

   This shift was a threat to republican marriage for reasons that went
   beyond a mushrooming population of newly single mothers scraping
   together funds to pay their rent or their babysitters, while their
   children trekked across the country to visit Dad every school vacation.
   The soaring rates of divorce signaled a fundamental transformation in
   the American idea of marriage. As Americans crowded into the divorce
   courts, they were casting aside the complex—and demanding—vision of the
   Founders. Marriage was becoming a minimalist institution; people now
   thought of it as an intimate relationship between two adults, having
   little to do with children and nothing to do with propagating the
   political and moral culture.

   This demand for a fuller recognition of the individual rights of
   spouses who sought divorce, along with the loosening relationship
   between child rearing and marriage—both necessary precursors for gay
   marriage—led inexorably to a further development. If marriage was
   simply a personal relationship between adults and had little to do with
   child rearing, Americans wondered, then what was the problem with a
   woman's having a baby if she wasn't wearing a ring? The answer could
   only be that there was none.

   What did the law have to say about this cultural revolution, given the
   state's interest in protecting marriage as the institution in which
   children are raised? The courts, in all their wisdom, decided that
   safeguarding marriage wasn't their job any more. In case after case,
   judges decreed that marriage was an ordinary civil contract and that
   marriage and child rearing were legally unconnected. Never mind that
   American law and policy had always accepted the traditional assumption
   that marriage laws centered largely on the relationship between
   generations. That was history. In the 1972 Stanley v. Illinois case, to
   cite just one of many examples, the Supreme Court decided that custody
   laws distinguishing wed and unwed fathers were "constitutionally
   repugnant." Fathers who had never married their child's mother should
   have the same rights as those who had. More recently, the prestigious
   American Law Institute recommended that state family law be updated to
   treat cohabiting parents as virtually identical to married parents in
   the event of a breakup. Sometimes parents marry; sometimes they don't.
   Why should the state care?

   Many have interpreted these legal innovations as part of the "long
   tradition of reforming marriage" in America that includes giving wives
   more rights over their own property as well as the repeal of
   miscegenation laws. They were no such thing. Unlike the changes in the
   treatment of blacks and women, which more fully expressed the Founders'
   ideals, the divorce revolution and the consequent change in thinking
   about marriage and child rearing represented a hard turn away from the
   original republican model.

   Widespread divorce and illegitimacy fracture into pieces the Founders'
   ideals of the self-governing family. Republican marriage had been a
   great experiment to harness a universal family bond into the service of
   a particular view of human freedom. Every society has some kind of
   marriage to tie parents and their offspring together, but only the
   American form of marriage strove to allow individuals the greatest
   amount of freedom within that tie. Little did the Founders expect that
   their most treasured ideal, freedom, would eventually be turned against
   the institution that they most prized for promoting that liberty by
   nurturing free citizens.

   No one knows the personal destruction wrought during this history
   better than the children who were its victims. For the generation now
   in its twenties and thirties, the sundering of child rearing and
   marriage was not part of the musty past; it was a bitter and lived
   reality. The world they grew up in was a scary, unpredictable place of
   self-absorbed adults who had a habit of disappearing, only to pop up
   from time to time with a stranger introduced as a new member of the
   family.

   That's not the world they want for their own children. Few of them are
   familiar with founding thinkers like James Wilson or John Adams, but
   they know enough to see that the family life the Founders had in mind
   was better than the one they endured. Yankelovich Partners found in one
   poll that almost three-quarters of Gen Xers—that is, adults in their
   late twenties and thirties—said they'd favor a return to more
   traditional standards in family life, though only a little over a half
   of their boomer parents agree. Knowing firsthand what it feels like
   when your father sits you down at the kitchen table and, unable to look
   you in the eye, says, "Your mother and I don't love each other any
   more"—and knowing from personal experience that their own capacity for
   stable relationships is shaky as a result—this generation questions a
   regime of drive-through divorces. A 1994 study by the National Opinion
   Research Center found that Gen Xers were the age group least likely to
   say that divorce is the best option for troubled couples. Young parents
   in their twenties and thirties are "nostalgic for the childhood that
   boomers supposedly had," as American Demographics has put it. "It's
   informed their model of the perfect, traditional marriage."

   So what are we to make of the fact that these mom-and-apple-pie young
   people tend to be more in favor of gay marriage than their parents and
   grandparents are? The great irony is that their traditionalism enlarges
   their sympathy for gays' hunger for ’til-death-do-us-part commitment;
   after all, that's what's they want, too. Odd as it sounds, gays and the
   children who grew up in single-parent homes share the experience of
   standing outside and looking longingly through the window at the
   peaceful, Norman Rockwell family reading or playing Scrabble in front
   of the fireplace. Rauch and Sullivan, in particular, have written
   touchingly of marriage as a solemn, even spiritual, union, a momentous
   public vow to another person that comes with profound responsibilities
   and aspires to transcendence. If you add together young people's
   earnest devotion to marriage and their interest in the civil rights
   movement (insofar as they have studied any American history at all,
   it's likely to begin with Rosa Parks and end with Martin Luther King),
   you have a generation for which gay marriage seems merely
   commonsensical.

   But what the young neo-traditionalists have trouble understanding is
   that their embrace of the next civil rights revolution, as many of them
   are inclined to see the fight for gay marriage, is actually at war with
   their longing for a more stable domestic life. Gay marriage gives an
   enfeebled institution another injection of the toxin that got it sick
   in the first place: it reinforces the definition of marriage as a
   loving, self-determining couple engaging in an ordinary civil contract
   that has nothing to do with children. That's no way for marriage to get
   its gravitas back. It is marriage's dedication to child rearing, to a
   future that projects far beyond the passing feelings of a couple, that
   has the potential to discipline adult passion. "The gravity of marriage
   as an institution comes from its demand that love be negotiated through
   these larger responsibilities [surrounding procreation]," Shelby Steele
   has written in response to Andrew Sullivan. Ignore those
   responsibilities and you get, well, you get the marital meltdown that
   this generation was hoping to transform.

   There is another reason to be skeptical about the idea that gay
   marriage is another step forward in an unbroken history of social
   progress. In fact, the fraying of the marriage–child rearing bond over
   the past decades has been a step backward: it has increased poverty and
   inequality. Too often, single-parent families, whether divorced or
   never married, are poor—and very much poorer than their two-earner
   counterparts. Instead of being the self-reliant units the Founders
   envisioned, too many of them are dependent on a powerful nanny state,
   either for welfare payments or for determining custody and tracking
   down child support. And instead of being the self-governing
   institutions of republican theory, nurturing sturdy, self-governing
   citizens, too many single-parent families, as many studies have shown,
   bring up kids who as adults do markedly less well on average in school,
   career, and marriage than those who grew up in intact two-parent
   families. As for children of never-married mothers: many of them make
   up the permanent underclass, and their high rates of crime, school
   failure, and welfare dependency are everything that the Founders
   expected the republican family to prevent. That so many of these
   families are black would make the Reconstruction architects of the
   Freedmen's Bureau weep.

   Think of the past several decades of high rates of divorce and
   illegitimacy as a kind of natural experiment testing the truth of the
   Founders' vision. The results are in: if we forget that marriage is
   both a voluntary union between two loving partners and an arrangement
   for rearing the next generation of self-reliant citizens, our capacity
   for self-government weakens.

   Alongside the familiar anthropological truth that marriage comes in
   many forms is another truth you don't hear about so much: different
   kinds of marriage—not to mention non-marriage—mold different kinds of
   individuals. The Founders envisioned a very specific sort of
   institution, one that would nourish a republic of equal, self-governing
   citizens. The evolution of marriage over the past 40 years has
   undermined that vision. Gay marriage threatens to sabotage it even
   further.
   Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Google Plus Print Sign up
   for Email Alerts

Summer 2004

   [CJ_14_3.jpg]
   More from

Kay S. Hymowitz

   [first-man-masculinity_666_400.jpg]
   books and culture

Untoxic Masculinity

   Kay S. Hymowitz First Man celebrates the moon landing without irony.
   [carrie-nation-temperance-movement_666_400.jpg]
   from the magazine

#ThemToo

   Kay S. Hymowitz Earlier women’s crusades tell us much about the one
   currently shaking up American life.
   [ford-kavanaugh-testimony_666_400.jpg]
   eye on the news

Tracks of Our Tears

   Kay S. Hymowitz The Ford-Kavanaugh testimony was emotionally grueling
   on both sides—but emotions should not guide our conclusions.
   More on

Other

   [john-bogle_666_400.jpg]
   eye on the news

Portfolio for the Common Man

   Nicole Gelinas John Bogle’s positive—but complex—legacy.
   [remembering-george-hw-bush_666_400.jpg]
   eye on the news

The Underestimated

   Tevi Troy George H.W. Bush, R.I.P.
   [herb_london_666_400.jpg]
   eye on the news

A Great and Good Man

   Benjamin Weingarten Herb London, 1939–2018
   []
   Up Next
   from the magazine

It’s Morning After in America

   Here’s why social indicators, dismaying for decades, have turned
   positive. Kay S. Hymowitz Politics and law, The Social Order, Public
   safety

City Journal

   A quarterly magazine of urban affairs, published by the Manhattan
   Institute, edited by Brian C. Anderson.
     * The Magazine
     * Books
     * Multimedia
     * All Publications
     * Subscribe
     * About
     * Praise
     * Contact
     * Advertise
     * Privacy Policy

     * Topics
          + Arts & Culture
          + California
          + Cities
          + Economy, Finance, Budgets
          + Education
          + Health Care
          + Infrastructure & Energy
          + New York
          + Politics & Law
          + Public Safety
          + Technology & Innovation
          + Texas
          + Other

     * Contributors
          + Brian C. Anderson
          + William Andrews
          + Seth Barron
          + Michael Knox Beran
          + Claire Berlinski
          + Paul Beston
          + Theodore Dalrymple
          + Stephen Eide
          + Nicole Gelinas
          + Edward L. Glaeser
          + Victor Davis Hanson
          + Howard Husock
          + Kay S. Hymowitz
          + Andrew Klavan
          + Joel Kotkin
          + John Leo
          + Heather Mac Donald
          + Myron Magnet
          + Steven Malanga
          + John O. McGinnis
          + Bob McManus
          + Judith Miller
          + Peter Reinharz
          + Aaron M. Renn
          + Fred Siegel
          + Guy Sorman
          + Harry Stein
          + John Tierney
          + Michael J. Totten
          + Adam White


    52 Vanderbilt Avenue
    New York, NY 10017

   (212) 599-7000
   City Journal on Facebook City Journal on Twitter City Journal on Google
   Plus City Journal on YouTube City Journal on Instagram City Journal RSS
   Copyright © 2019 Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, Inc. All
   rights reserved.
   EIN #13-2912529 Website design and development by GoodFolk

Contact

   Send a question or comment using the form below. This message may be
   routed through support staff.
   ____________________ Full Name ____________________ Email
   ____________________ Subject
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   Message
   Cancel Send
   Saved!
   Close

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-19.txt>

   #ROR

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WSF7BSB

   [0?ti=5986988&Ver=2]

   Notice: JavaScript is not enabled. Please Enable JavaScript Safely.

   skip to main content

   (Submit) Toggle navigation
     * Gallup

     * What We Do
       (Submit) Close menu
       Our Services
       Exceptional Workplaces
       Create an environment where employees and teams excel.
          + Employee Experience
          + Culture
          + Employee Engagement
          + Manager Development
          + Workforce Analytics
          + Performance Management
          + Hiring Analytics
          + Strengths Development
          + Wellbeing
          + Diversity & Inclusion
       Advanced Analytics
       Make accurate decisions to ensure long-term success.
          + World Poll
          + Gallup Panel
          + U.S. Daily Tracking
          + Gallup Analytics
          + Business-to-Business
          + Customer Analytics
       CliftonStrengths
       Boost performance by maximizing what your employees do best.
          + For Individuals
          + For Managers
          + For Organizations
          + For Education
          + How It Works
          + CliftonStrengths 34 Themes
          + Builder Initiative
       Education
       Drive high engagement and performance at your institution.
          + K-12 Education
          + Higher Education
          + Research Partners
          + Strada-Gallup Alumni Survey
          + CliftonStrengths for Students
          + Talent-Based Hiring
          + Gallup Student Poll
       Featured Solution
       Gallup Access
       Manage your workforce through a dynamic online platform.
       Featured Book
       It's the Manager
       Learn about the biggest factor in your organization's success.
       More from Gallup
       News
       Read about the attitudes and behaviors of the world's 7 billion
       citizens.
          + Reports
          + Books
          + Courses & Workshops
          + Events
       View All Services & Solutions
     * Who We Are
     * Locations
     * Careers
     * Store

     * Search

   News (Submit) Toggle navigation
     * Overview
     * Business
          + Business
          + Advanced Analytics
          + B2B
          + CliftonStrengths
          + Customer Engagement
          + Employee Engagement
          + Leadership
          + Marketplace
          + Workplace
          + Gallup Business Journal
          + Chairman's Blog
     * Politics
          + Politics
          + Foreign Affairs
          + Government
          + The Presidency
          + Presidential Job Approval Center
     * World
          + World
          + Americas
          + Asia Pacific
          + Europe
          + Middle East & North Africa
          + Sub-Saharan Africa
     * Education
          + Education
          + Higher Education
          + K-12
     * Social & Policy Issues
          + Social & Policy Issues
          + Abortion
          + Crime
          + Environment
          + Guns
          + Healthcare
          + Immigration
          + LGBT
          + Marijuana
          + Millennials
          + Race Relations
          + Taxes
          + Terrorism
          + Women
          + Gallup Vault
          + Polling Matters
     * Well-Being
          + Well-Being
          + Chronic Disease
          + Drugs & Alcohol
          + Health Habits
          + Health Insurance
     * Economy
          + Economy
          + Entrepreneurship
          + Personal Finance
          + Retirement
          + Small Business
     * Blogs & Podcast
          + The Chairman's Blog
          + Gallup Blog
          + Gallup Vault
          + Methodology Blog
          + Polling Matters
          + Gallup Podcast

     * Sign In
     * Subscribe
     * About Gallup and Our Services
     * Access Log In

   Politics

Two in Three Americans Support Same-Sex Marriage

     * Share on Facebook
     * Share on Twitter
     * Share on LinkedIn
     * Share via Email
     * Print

     * Share on Facebook
     * Share on Twitter
     * Share on LinkedIn
     * Share via Email
     * Print

   Politics
   May 23, 2018

Two in Three Americans Support Same-Sex Marriage

   by Justin McCarthy
   Two in Three Americans Support Same-Sex Marriage

Story Highlights

     * 67% of U.S. adults say gay marriages should be legally valid
     * New high in support for gay marriage in Gallup's trend
     * Democrats remain more in favor than Republicans

   WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Sixty-seven percent of Americans support same-sex
   marriage -- the highest level in Gallup's trend. In each of the past
   three annual polls, Gallup has recorded three-percentage point
   increases among Americans who say same-sex marriages should be legally
   valid. The current figure is up 40 percentage points from the 27% who
   supported gay marriage when Gallup first polled on the question in
   1996.
   GayMarriageSupport

   These data are from Gallup's annual Values and Beliefs poll, conducted
   May 1-10.

   Some of the increases in support may be due to greater numbers of
   lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) adults getting married in
   the U.S. Using data for all of 2017, Gallup has found that more than
   10.4% of LGBT adults are married to a same-sex spouse. This means that
   Americans are more likely to know someone who has married a same-sex
   partner, and the visibility of these marriages may be playing a role in
   overturning some folks' previously held opposition to their legal
   status.

   Gay marriage became legal nationwide in 2015 upon the Supreme Court's
   Obergefell decision. This came more than a decade after the first
   state, Massachusetts, had legalized gay marriage. In the years leading
   up to the decision, a patchwork of state laws were created for and
   against same-sex marriage.
   ##SPEEDBUMP##

   Democrats Reach New High in Support for Same-Sex Marriage

   Democrats remain the most likely to support gay marriage among party
   groups. The 83% of Democrats in favor of legally recognized same-sex
   marriages is the highest level of support recorded for this group.

   Democrats are nearly twice as likely as Republicans to support legal
   recognition of gay marriages -- less than half of the GOP favors legal
   gay marriage (44%). The latest figure for Republicans' views on gay
   marriage is similar to the 47% recorded in 2017. The GOP has seen
   growth in the percentage of Republicans who favor legally recognized
   gay marriage over the years, but has yet to reach majority support.

   Meanwhile, independents' opinions on the issue are closer to those of
   Democrats. Currently, 71% of independents say gay marriages should be
   recognized by the law as valid, matching this group's previous high
   from last year.
   GayMarriageSupport_political

   Bottom Line

   With the third anniversary of the Supreme Court's decision nearing and
   no formidable opposition trying to undo gay marriage's legality, it's
   likely that the percentage of married LGBT adults in the U.S. will
   continue to grow as new generations of same-sex couples enjoy their
   newfound rights.

   The trend toward increased public support for same-sex marriage could
   very well continue, given that there is still room for increased
   support among Democrats and independents. Reaching a national consensus
   on the issue would depend more on greater acceptance among Republicans,
   who remain mostly opposed to legally recognized same-sex marriages.

   In addition to the general trend toward greater acceptance of gay
   marriage, the same-sex weddings taking place across the country may be
   softening opposition among some Americans who once feared for what
   legalization would bring. But now that it's been legal for nearly three
   years -- and even longer in certain states -- some opponents to gay
   marriage may be rethinking their previous opposition.

   Americans have changed their minds on the legality of other issues as
   well. Gallup's trend on support for legalization of marijuana has
   largely mirrored its trend on legalization of gay marriage. On both
   issues, support gained steadily in the 2000s before reaching majority
   level in the 2010s.

Survey Methods

   Results for this Gallup poll are based on telephone interviews
   conducted May 1-10, 2018, with a random sample of 1,024 adults, aged 18
   and older, living in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia.
   For results based on the total sample of national adults, the margin of
   sampling error is ±4 percentage points at the 95% confidence level. All
   reported margins of sampling error include computed design effects for
   weighting.

   Each sample of national adults includes a minimum quota of 70%
   cellphone respondents and 30% landline respondents, with additional
   minimum quotas by time zone within region. Landline and cellular
   telephone numbers are selected using random-digit-dial methods.

   [View survey methodology, complete question responses and trends.]

   Learn more about how the Gallup Poll Social Series works.
   Gallup

   Gallup News Alerts

   Gallup News Alerts
   Get the latest data-driven news delivered straight to your inbox.
   Sign Up

Related Topics Include:

   USA All Gallup Headlines LGBT Marriage Moral Issues Politics Social and
   Policy Issues

   Advanced Analytics

Access Crucial Data for Your Research

   Search, examine, compare and export nearly a century of primary data.

   Learn More about Access Crucial Data for Your Research

   Subscribe to receive weekly Gallup News alerts.
   Never miss our latest insights.
   Sign Up

Recommended

   Gallup Blog
   May 21, 2018

Explore Americans' Views on LGBT Issues

   Over the next week, Gallup will release a series of three articles
   providing insight into LGBT issues.
   Politics
   May 22, 2018

In U.S., Estimate of LGBT Population Rises to 4.5%

   The percentage of American adults identifying as lesbian, gay, bisexual
   or transgender increased to 4.5% in 2017 from 4.1% in 2016 and 3.5% in
   2012.
   Politics
   Feb 7, 2018

Majority Remains Satisfied With Acceptance of Gays in U.S.

   A majority of Americans remain satisfied with the acceptance of gays
   and lesbians in the U.S., but 23% are dissatisfied because they seek
   more acceptance.
   Polling Matters
   Aug 3, 2018

Looking Into What Americans Mean by "Working Class"

   by Frank Newport

   Some Americans may literally define the "working class" as those who
   are working, rather than as a position in the socioeconomic hierarchy.

   May 23, 2018
   Gallup
   https://news.gallup.com/poll/234866/two-three-americans-support-sex-mar
   riage.aspx
   Gallup World Headquarters, 901 F Street, Washington, D.C., 20001, U.S.A
   +1 202.715.3030

   News
   Our Company
     * About Gallup
     * Locations
     * George Gallup
     * Methodology Center
     * Senior Scientists & Advisers

   Topics
     * Business
     * Politics
     * World
     * Education
     * Social & Policy Issues
     * Well-Being
     * Economy
     * Blogs
     * Trends A-Z

   More From Gallup
     * Gallup.com
     * Exceptional Workplaces
     * Advanced Analytics
     * CliftonStrengths
     * Gallup Access
     * News
     * Reports
     * Books
     * Courses & Workshops
     * Events
     * Shop

   Contact Us
     * Careers
     * Media Inquiries
     * Gallup Speakers
     * Get In Touch
     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * LinkedIn
     * YouTube

   Copyright © 2019 Gallup, Inc. All rights reserved.

   Copyright © 2016 Gallup, Inc. All rights reserved.
   Gallup, Inc. maintains several registered and unregistered trademarks
   that include but may not be limited to: A8, Accountability Index,
   Business Impact Analysis, BE10, CE11, CE11 Accelerator, Clifton
   StrengthsExplorer, Clifton StrengthsFinder, Customer Engagement Index,
   Customer Engagement Management, Dr. Gallup Portrait, Employee
   Engagement Index, Enetrix, Engagement Creation Index, Follow This Path,
   Gallup, Gallup Brain, Gallup Business Journal, GBJ, Gallup Consulting,
   Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index, Gallup Management Journal, GMJ,
   Gallup Panel, Gallup Press, Gallup Tuesday Briefing, Gallup University,
   Gallup World News, HumanSigma, HumanSigma Accelerator, ICE11, I10, L3,
   ME25, NurseInsight, NurseStrengths, Patient Quality System, Performance
   Optimization, Power of 2, PrincipalInsight, Q12, Q12 Accelerator, Q12
   Advantage, Selection Research, Inc., SE25, SF34, SRI, Soul of the City,
   Strengths Spotlight, Strengths-Based Selling, StatShot, StrengthsCoach,
   StrengthsExplorer, StrengthsFinder, StrengthsInsight, StrengthsQuest,
   SupportInsight, TX(R+E+R)=P3, TeacherInsight, The Gallup Path, The
   Gallup Poll, The Gallup School, VantagePoint, Varsity Management,
   Wellbeing Finder, Achiever, Activator, Adaptability, Analytical,
   Arranger, Belief, Command, Communication, Competition, Connectedness,
   Consistency, Context, Deliberative, Developer, Discipline, Empathy,
   Fairness, Focus, Futuristic, Harmony, Ideation, Includer,
   Individualization, Input, Intellection , Learner, Maximizer,
   Positivity, Relator, Responsibility, Restorative, Self-Assurance,
   Significance, Strategic, and Woo. All other trademarks are the property
   of their respective owners. These materials are provided for
   noncommercial, personal use only. Reproduction prohibited without the
   express permission of Gallup, Inc.
     * Privacy Statement
     * Legal

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-20.txt>

   #The Stranger: Whole Site The Stranger: Slog Section The Stranger:
   Articles by Rich Smith

   The Stranger
     * Things to Read
          + Art and Performance Winter 2018
          + Happy Hour Guide
          + Green Guide Fall 2018/Winter 2019
          + Home
          + Slog
          + Savage Love
          + Queer
          + I, Anonymous
          + Features
          + News
          + Weed
          + Food&Drink
          + Music
          + Film/TV
          + Arts
     * Things to Do
          + MLK Day
          + Valentine's Day
          + Resistance & Solidarity
          + Things To Do Home
          + All Events
          + Music
          + Movie Times
          + Film Festivals&Events
          + Performance
          + Comedy
          + Art
          + Readings&Talks
          + Food&Drink Events
          + Shopping
          + Queer
          + Weed Events
          + Weed Shops
          + Festivals
          + Community&Civics
          + Parties & Nightlife
          + Geek&Gaming
          + Sports&Recreation
          + Restaurants
          + Bars&Clubs

     *
          + Log in
          + Sign up
     * ____________________

   (BUTTON)
   Menu
   Close
   The Stranger
   ____________________ (Submit)
     * Things To Read
     * Art and Performance Winter 2018
     * Happy Hour Guide
     * Green Guide Fall 2018/Winter 2019
     * Home
     * Slog
     * Savage Love
     * Queer
     * I, Anonymous
     * Features
     * News
     * Weed
     * Food&Drink
     * Music
     * Film/TV
     * Arts
     * Print Archives

     * Things To Do
     * MLK Day
     * Valentine's Day
     * Resistance & Solidarity
     * Things To Do Home
     * All Events
     * Music
     * Movie Times
     * Film Festivals&Events
     * Performance
     * Comedy
     * Art
     * Readings&Talks
     * Food&Drink Events
     * Shopping
     * Queer
     * Weed Events
     * Weed Shops
     * Festivals
     * Community&Civics
     * Parties & Nightlife
     * Geek&Gaming
     * Sports&Recreation
     * Restaurants
     * Bars&Clubs

     * Other Things
     * Ad Info & Rates
     * Stranger Tickets

     * Account
     * Log in
     * Sign up

[]

   Books • LGBTQITSLFA

Jordan Peterson's Views on Gay Marriage and Child-Rearing Are Dumb

   by Rich Smith • Jun 22, 2018 at 11:18 am
   Tweet submit to reddit

   I dunno, looks like a cultural Marxist conspiracy to me...
   Love wins? I dunno, looks like a cultural Marxist conspiracy to me...
   Kelly O

   Last night professor Jordan Peterson—daddy of all lobsters, Kermit of
   all frogs, palest of the spiders crawling around on the Intellectual
   Dark Web—stopped by The Moore for the second time since May. I didn't
   attend the lecture because I wasn't invited, but I do want to celebrate
   his departure. Since it's #pride this weekend, and since Slog is
   appropriately gay themed this morning, I thought it might be nice to
   briefly review Mr. Peterson's ideas about gay marriage and gay
   child-rearing. He's a clinical psychologist, after all, so maybe he has
   some interesting things to say about those subjects.

   Surprise! He doesn't.

   Let's begin with the most recent of the two videos I'll discuss. It was
   posted in early May of 2018, and it's called "Thoughts on Gay People
   Raising Children." When asked what he thinks about gay people raising
   kids, he says "I think the devil's in the details to tell you the
   truth."

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/kPtZ-u78hDc

   Peterson ultimately offers his blessings, but only under the condition
   that the gay couple "accept the fact that it's necessary for kids to
   have models of both sexes," believe deep in their hearts that "the
   sexes are different" in the first place, and realize they have a
   "tremendous responsibility" to provide for their children "what it is
   they would get in the classical human unit," which he describes as
   "father, mother, child." He specifically seems most worried about one
   or the other parent not taking on the father's role, which he claims is
   to initiate "rough and tumble play with the kids."

   So Peterson approves of you lesbian ladies adopting children, but only
   if one of you promises to put on the pants and throw the kid into the
   lake, a role he thinks you might not naturally perform due to your sex.
   And you gay mens can raise babies all you want, but only if one of you
   plays the role of the nurturing Yin chaos mother.

   Peterson might be worried about the fates of kids raised by gay
   couples, but an overwhelming number of other scientists are not. Only
   four of 79 studies surveyed by Columbia Law School suggested that kids
   raised by gay parents faced any adverse effects, but "all four took
   their samples from children who endured family break-ups." Over at the
   Guardian, Nick Evershed cites two other reviews that support the
   conclusion that kids are just as well off being raised by gay parents
   as they are by straight parents.

   But this question of gay couples raising kids doesn't happen in a
   vacuum, it happens in a country with an adoption crisis and a broken
   foster care system. We need gay couples to adopt children if we want to
   help more kids out of foster homes and into stabler situations. But
   Peterson is so obsessed with enforcing gender norms in parenting that
   he doesn't even think about this larger issue.

   Now, should gay people even get married in the first place? Though it
   seems like a pretty settled subject for the majority of Americans, even
   in 2017 Peterson still had some concerns.

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/4jef2C4T1_A

   "That's a really tough one for me. If the marital vows are taken
   seriously, then it seems to me that it's a means whereby gay people
   could be more integrated more thoroughly into standard society, and
   that's probably a good thing. And maybe that would decrease
   promiscuity, which is a public health problem, though obviously that's
   not limited to gay people," he says.

   Seems like he's into it for all the wrong reasons, but whatever, I
   don't always require purity of motive. But then in the video Peterson
   makes a little turn. He describes gay marriage as a wedge issue, and
   says it isn't obvious to him that "that legalizing gay marriage has
   done anything to decrease the demands that the radical left neo-Marxist
   types are placing on traditional society." You see, he's "concerned
   about the undermining of traditional modes of being, including
   marriage, which has technically and historically been a union between a
   man and a woman fundamentally for the purpose of raising children in a
   stable...environment."

   Again, Peterson's so obsessed with his weird little worldview that he
   sees gay marriage not as a fight for equal treatment under the law, not
   as a fight to claim next of kin so you can be in the hospital room when
   your partner is sick and dying, not as a fight to be just as miserable
   in love as straight people in marriages, but as one more milestone in a
   vast neo-Marxist conspiracy to erode "traditional modes of being."

   For the last time: this ~*free thinker*~ is not to be taken seriously.
   His ideas are "dangerous," but not in a cheeky contrarian way. If
   people adopted Peterson's ideas on LGBTQ issues, gay couples wouldn't
   be able to adopt children, and they might not even be seen as couples
   in the eyes of a law.

   But more than "dangerous," Peterson's ideas are boring, tedious,
   retrograde, and confused. He's a tradition-humping reactionary crank
   feeding off of the "Make the Present the Past Again" sentiment driving
   some of the worst impulses in the country right now.

   He's been roundly and thoroughly skewered by writers who've spent lots
   of time with him and by writers who haven't. But he's also been
   glorified as a savior of not-just-white-men on the internet. I'm
   sympathetic to readers who say Peterson's books saved them from the
   precipices of far right, but he doesn't seem to be pulling them back
   that far.
   To get this delivered to your inbox, subscribe to The Stranger's Slog
   AM/PM newsletter.
   ____________________
   ____________________
   (Subscribe) Subscribe
   Share on Facebook
   Share on Twitter

46

You might also be interested in these:

Dreamy, Warm, Homespun Fun with PETS at Barboza Today

   by Jasmyne Keimig

Slog PM: Mueller Team Contradicts BuzzFeed Report, the National Parks Are
Suffering, Seattle Woman May be Evicted Over $2

   by Nathalie Graham

We Just Got a Letter to the Editor Calling Lester "Poopy Pants Snowflake"

   by Christopher Frizzelle

Most Popular in Slog

     * Some Thoughts on Coming, Catholicism, and Making a Portrait of
       Trump Out of Dicks Savage Love Letter of the Day: Reader Advice
       Round-up by Dan Savage
     * Slog PM: Mueller Team Contradicts BuzzFeed Report, the National
       Parks Are Suffering, Seattle Woman May be Evicted Over $2 by
       Nathalie Graham
     * Dear Todd Herman: Maybe You Shouldn't Drive in Bus Lanes,
       Considering All Your Traffic Violations by Nathalie Graham
     * Federal Workers Demand Trump and Republicans End the Government
       Shutdown by Rich Smith
     * We Just Got a Letter to the Editor Calling Lester "Poopy Pants
       Snowflake" by Christopher Frizzelle
     * The Effortless Queer Pop of Babie by Charles Mudede
     * Fuck Your Report, Seattle Is the Best Coffee City in the World by
       Lester Black

Newsletters
       Sign up for the latest news and to win free tickets to events

Stranger Tickets
       Buy tickets to events around Seattle

Stranger Things To Do
       Comprehensive calendar of Seattle events

Stranger Things To Do App
       The easiest way to find Seattle's best events

This Week's Issue
       Cover of this issue of The Stranger
       Print Archives

Publication Info
          + Masthead
          + Ad Info & Rates
          + Distribution
          + Jobs at The Stranger
          + Contact

Check it out
       Savage Lovecast
       Cocktail Compass
       The Stranger Promotions

Follow Us
          + RSS
          + Facebook
          + Twitter
          + Instagram
       The Stranger
       All contents © Index Newspapers LLC
       1535 11th Ave (Third Floor), Seattle, WA 98122
       Contact | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Takedown Policy
       The Stranger
       All contents © Index Newspapers LLC
       1535 11th Ave (Third Floor), Seattle, WA 98122
       Contact | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Takedown Policy

   Quantcast Quantcast

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-21.txt>

   #next

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5F22G6
   Google Tag Manager

   Sat, Jan 19, 2019
   Sign In Subscribe

Search form

   Search _______________
   Search
     * U.S.
     * World
     * Business
     * Tech & Science
     * Culture
     * Sports
     * Health
     * Opinion
     * Ndelible

Same-Sex Marriage

   GettyImages-486342292
   U.S.

Majority of U.S. Muslims Now Back Same-Sex Marriage

   During his campaign, President Donald Trump said he would protect the
   LGBT community from the oppression of Islam.
   02_10_Same-Sex_01
   U.S.

Gay Teacher Fired After Wedding

   “This weekend I married the love of my life and unfortunately I was
   terminated from my job as a result,” Morffi said on social media.
   GettyImages-874325494
   World

Pictures of same-sex weddings in Australia

   "It's another way to show your love and appreciation of your partner in
   front of the people in your life," Craig Burns, who married his partner
   Luke Sullivan at midnight, told the Associated Press.
   GettyImages-800027580
   World

Bermuda May Ban Same-Sex Marriage Again

   A bill would replace same-sex marriage with a domestic partnership
   arrangement.
   GettyImages-543297060
   U.S.

Same-Sex Couples Denied Full Marriage Benefits in Texas

   The Supreme Court let stand a lower court ruling that lets the state
   take away spousal benefits under employee insurance plans.
   11_15_Same_Sex_Marriage_Australia
   World

Where Is Same-Sex Marriage Legal?

   LGBT activists are celebrating in Australia after the country voted in
   favor of same-sex marriage.
   Kim Davis
   U.S.

Kim Davis Will Run for Re-Election

   She may be opposed by one of the people who sued her.
   10_21_australia_02
   World

Will Australia Embrace Same-Sex Marriage?

   A 'yes' vote from the public is expected to lead to legalization.
   09_30_LDS_Conference
   U.S.

Mormon Church Still Opposes Same-Sex Marriage

   The Supreme Court may have declared same-sex marriage a right
   nationwide, but the church still does not accept it.
   German Same-Sex marriage
   World

Christian Politicians Try to Stop Same-Sex Weddings

   The new rules are set to come into effect at the end of the year.
   Same-Sex Marriage U.S.
   U.S.

More Americans Than Ever Back Same-Sex Marriage

   Most Americans now support equal rights to marriage, and attitudes have
   changed rapidly even among Republicans.
   Putin, patriarch kirill
   World

Russian Church Leader Compares Gay Marriage to Nazi Law

   It is not the first time Patriarch Kirill, Russia’s highest religious
   authority, has spoken out against same-sex marriage.
   05_16_davidson_01
   World

U.K. Diplomat Opens Up About Promoting LGBTI Tolerance

   The U.K.'s ambassador to Thailand will speak Wednesday at the
   International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia in
   Bangkok.
   same_sex_marriage_0515
   U.S.

Same-Sex Marriage Support at Highest-Ever Level: Poll

   Gallup first started polling Americans on the issue in 1996.
   03_05_germany_01
   World

Same-Sex Marriage Endorsed by German Parties

   Germany's Social Democrats and Greens push for legalization, which has
   been opposed by the chancellor's Christian Democrats.
   young_people_terrorism_0207
   World

World’s Young People Most Afraid of Terrorism: Report

   More than 20,000 people aged 15 to 21 from 20 countries were surveyed.
   Donald Trump abortion
   U.S.

Donald Trump Talks Same-Sex Marriage And Abortion Law

   If Roe v Wade is overturned, women will not be able to terminate
   pregnancies in certain states.
   10_08_australia_01
   World

Australians Rally for Same-Sex Marriage, Against Vote

   Backers want Parliament to authorize same-sex marriage instead of
   allowing the public to vote next year.
   NewsweekGaysUnderFire
   Opinion

Hunted for Holding Hands

   24 years after being featured on Newsweek’s 1992 “Gays Under Fire”
   cover, Brad Lamm writes what has changed since he and his then partner
   were attacked in New York.
   alabama
   U.S.

Top Alabama Judge Orders Halt to Gay Marriage Licenses

   Roy Moore said a ban on Alabama same-sex marriage licenses remains in
   effect.
   12_28_Rowan_County_01
   Opinion

Kim Davis Denied Me a Marriage License. And I’m Not Gay

   The woman who ruined my wedding and turned my life into a circus looked
   straight through me.
   1223_Kim_Davis_01
   U.S.

Kim Davis: 'I Failed So Miserably at Marriage'

   She spent five days in jail for refusing to issue licenses to same-sex
   couples.
   1220_slovenia_same_sex_marriage
   World

Same-Sex Marriage Referendum Fails in Slovenia

   About 63.4 percent vote against allowing same-sex couples the right to
   marry and adopt children.
   1117_First_gay_couple_marries_Ireland_01
   World

First Gay Couple Marries in Ireland Six Months After Referendum Vote

   Richard Dowling and Cormac Gollogly are the first gay couple to marry
   in Ireland.
   09_25_KimDavis_01
   U.S.

Kim Davis is a Republican Now

   "The Democratic Party left us a long time ago, so why were we hanging
   on?" she said.
   0914_Kim_Davis_returns_work_01
   U.S.

Kentucky Clerk Kim Davis Back in Office, but Defiant on Gay Marriage Licenses

   Davis said she will allow her deputies to issue licenses despite her
   stance against U.S. Supreme Court.
   0913_Kim_Davis_billboard_01
   U.S.

Kentucky Clerk Kim Davis Mocked on Billboard in Hometown

   The county clerk was jailed for refusing to issue marriage licenses to
   same-sex couples.
   North_Carolina_Gay_Marriage
   U.S.

Magistrates in a North Carolina County Refuse to Perform Same-Sex Marriages

   Magistrates are being brought in from a neighboring county to perform
   marriages after four refused to do so.
   09_10_samesexmarriage_01
   Opinion

Gay Marriage and Religious Rights: Say Nada to FADA

   A bill intended to protect those offended by gay marriage could open a
   can of worms.

Pages

     * 1
     * 2
     * Next

   © 2019 Newsweek
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

     * About Us
     * Corrections
     * Contact Us
     * Travel
     * Advertise
     * Copyright
     * Terms & Conditions
     * Privacy Policy
     * Cookie Policy
     * Terms of Sale
     * Archive
     * Announcements

   Consent preferences
   Editions:
     * U.S. Edition
     * Middle East
     * 日本
     * 한국
     * Pakistan
     * Polska
     * România

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-22.txt>

   skip to page content

   Home | Contact | Help
   MyAccount | Login | Register |
   National Conference of State Legislatures
     * About Us
       [SubTop.png]
          + Executive Committee
               o Members
               o Nominating Procedures
               o Officers
               o Standing Committees | Task Forces
          + NCSL Foundation for State Legislatures
               o Annual Report
               o Board of Directors
               o Core Programs
               o Sponsor List
          +
     * Legislators & Staff
       [SubTop.png]
          + Tools
               o A-Z Issues & NCSL Contacts
               o Get Involved with NCSL
               o Jobs Clearinghouse
               o Legislative Session Calendar
               o Staff Directories
               o StateConnect Directory
               o State Liaisons
               o Webinars
          + Legislators
               o Legislative Leaders
               o Legislator Training
               o Legislators Back to School
               o Standing Committees
               o Trust for Representative Democracy
               o Women's Legislative Network
               o Legislative Staff
               o Legislative Staff Coordinating Committee
               o Training
          + Professional Staff Associations
               o Clerks and Secretaries
               o Education Network
               o Fiscal Offices
               o Information Officers
               o Information Technology
               o Leadership Staff
               o Program Evaluation
               o Research Librarians
               o Research, Editorial, Legal and Committee Staff
               o Services & Security
          +
     * Research
       [SubTop.png]
          + Tools
               o A-Z Issues & NCSL Contacts
               o Bill Tracking
               o StateConnect Directory
               o State Legislatures Magazine
          + Topics
               o About State Legislatures
               o Agriculture and Rural Development
               o Civil and Criminal Justice
               o Education
               o Elections and Campaigns
               o Energy
               o Environment and Natural Resources
               o Ethics
               o Financial Services and Commerce
               o Fiscal Policy
          +
               o Health
               o Human Services
               o Immigration
               o International
               o Labor and Employment
               o Military and Veterans Affairs
               o Redistricting
               o State-Tribal Institute
               o Telecommunication and IT
               o Transportation
          +
     * Meetings & Training
       [SubTop.png]
          + Tools
               o Calendar
               o Online Registration
          + Meetings
               o NCSL Capitol Forum
               o Legislative Summit 2019
          + Training
               o E-Learning | Staff Professional Development
               o Legislator Training
          +
     * NCSL IN D.C.
       [SubTop.png]
          + Tools
               o Capitol to Capitol
               o Letters and Testimony
               o Federal Resources and Databases
               o Policy Directives and Resolutions
          + Standing Committees | Task Forces
               o Budgets and Revenue
               o Communications, Financial Services and Interstate
                 Commerce
               o Education
               o Health and Human Services
               o Labor and Economic Development
               o Law, Criminal Justice and Public Safety
               o Natural Resources and Infrastructure
               o Redistricting and Elections
          +
     * Magazine
       [SubTop.png]
          + State Legislatures Magazine
               o Advertising
               o Subscribe
          + LegisBriefs
          + Other Subscriptions
               o e-Newsletters
               o Mailing Lists
               o StateConnect
               o Mason's Manual
          +
       November/December
       The November/December issue of State Legislatures reports on the
       results of state legislative elections and how voters decided on
       statewide ballot measures. Also read about state moves to implement
       5G, tough new digital privacy laws, changes in the criminal justice
       system and a celebration of legislative staff.
       Current Issue
     * Blog

   Back

Same Sex Marriage Laws

Same-Sex Marriage Laws

   6/26/2015

Table of Contents

     * State Same-Sex Marriage Laws Map
     * History

Contact

     * All Press Inquiries

   [rings_gavel_240.jpg] Latest Development: The U.S. Supreme Court has
   ruled that states cannot ban same-sex marriage, thereby requiring all
   states to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples.

   Background and History: State legislatures, voters and more recently
   the courts have made sweeping changes over the past two decades in laws
   defining whether marriage is limited to relationships between a man and
   a woman or is extended to same-sex couples. Before the U.S. Supreme
   Court ruling on Oct. 6, 2014, declining to hear cases on same-sex
   marriage, 31 states had either constitutional or statutory provisions
   that explicitly defined marriage as between a man and a woman and just
   19 states and the District of Columbia allowed same-sex marriage. Now,
   at least 37 states and D.C. recognize same-sex marriage.

   The status of same-sex marriage remains in flux. All states have some
   court case pending on the topic. Five of those states’ cases were
   pending before the U.S. Supreme Court. The Supreme Court decided not to
   hear the cases, thereby allowing the decisions from the 4th, 7th and
   10th U.S. Circuit Courts of Appeal to stand. That meant same-sex
   couples could marry in five more states—Indiana, Oklahoma, Utah,
   Virginia and Wisconsin. The following day, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court
   of Appeals struck down same-sex marriage bans in Nevada and Idaho.

   Two days later, West Virginia’s attorney general stopped his defense of
   that state’s ban. Colorado’s attorney general said the 10th U.S.
   Circuit Court of Appeals decision invalidates that state’s ban. In
   North Carolina, a federal judge ruled that state’s ban
   unconstitutional, applying the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
   ruling. Alaska's appeal was refused by the Supreme Court and a federal
   district judge ruled Arizona's ban unconstitutional and the attorney
   general said he would not appeal the decision. Wyoming is the latest
   state where the attorney general has decided not to appeal a federal
   district court judge ruling the state’s ban unconstitutional. The U.S.
   Supreme Court on Nov. 12, 2014, lifted its hold on issuing same-sex
   marriage licenses in Kansas. A South Carolina state Supreme Court and
   federal judge in Montana are the latest to rule overturning same-sex
   marriage bans. On Jan. 6, 2015, the state of Florida will begin
   allowing same-sex marriage after a district judge ruled the ban
   unconstitutional and the U.S. Supreme Court refused to grant the
   state’s attorney general a stay on the decision. On February 9, 2015
   Alabama began issuing same-sex marriage licenses after a U.S. district
   judge ruled the state's ban unconstitutional. The judge put the January
   decision on hold to allow the state to prepare. The state requested the
   hold be extended, but the U.S. Supreme Court refused to do so. With
   these changes, at least 37 states and D.C. recognize same-sex marriage.
   In June 2015, a federal judge in Guam ruled their ban to be
   unconstitutional, making Guam the first territory to allow same-sex
   marriage.

   There is also a federal appeals court ruling to uphold states' ban on
   same-sex marriage. On Nov. 6, 2014, a federal appeals court judge in
   the 6th U.S. Circuit upheld four states' bans on same-sex marriage. The
   opinion upholds bans in Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, and Tennessee. The
   decision is the first by a federal appeals court to uphold the
   bans. The U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear the four cases. The
   court is expected to hear arguments in April and make a decision in
   June on whether it is constitutional for states to prohibit same-sex
   marriage and whether states may refuse to recognize same-sex marriages
   lawfully performed out of state.

   CAPTION: States that Allowed Same-Sex Marriage Prior to 2015 U.S.
   Supreme Court Ruling

   Alabama       New Hampshire
   Alaska

   New Jersey

   Arizona

   New Mexico

   California

   New York

   Colorado
   North Carolina

   Connecticut

   Oklahoma
   Delaware      Oregon

   Florida
   Pennsylvania

   Hawaii

   Rhode Island

   Idaho

   South Carolina

   Illinois

   Utah

   Indiana

   Vermont

   Iowa

   Virginia

   Kansas

   Washington

   Maine

   West Virginia

   Maryland

   Wisconsin
   Massachusetts Wyoming
   Minnesota     District of Columbia

   Montana

   Guam
   Nevada



State Same-Sex Marriage Laws Prior to 2015 U.S. Supreme Court Ruling:
Legislatures and Courts

   50-state map

History

   The public national discussion around same-sex marriage first began in
   1993 when the Hawaii Supreme Court ruled that laws denying same-sex
   couples the right to marry violated state constitutional equal
   protection rights unless the state could show a "compelling reason" for
   such discrimination. Since that time, many states have taken actions to
   clearly define marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman and
   others have allowed same-sex couples to marry.

   Before 1993, seven states had laws that defined marriage as a
   relationship between a man and a woman. After the Hawaii court decision
   raised the possibility that states could recognize same sex marriage,
   32 state legislatures (including Hawaii) adopted statutory language
   defining marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman,
   including Alaska, which adopted both a statute and the nation’s first
   constitutional provision prohibiting same-sex marriage. Nebraska
   adopted a constitutional provision limiting marriage to relationships
   between a man and a woman. As a result, 40 states had statutory and/or
   constitutional provisions limiting marriage to opposite-sex couples by
   the end of 2000.

   Starting in 2000, some states began recognizing same-sex couples’
   relationships. In April 2000, Vermont approved landmark legislation to
   recognize civil unions between same-sex couples, granting them
   virtually all the benefits, protections and responsibilities that
   married couples have under Vermont law. The Vermont legislation was a
   result of the state Supreme Court ruling in Baker v. Vermont that said
   same-sex couples are entitled, under the state constitution's "Common
   Benefits Clause," to the same benefits and protections as married
   opposite-sex couples. The court ruled that the Vermont General Assembly
   must decide how to provide these benefits and protections, either by
   legalizing marriage for same-sex couples or by establishing an
   alternative system. The Vermont General Assembly chose to preserve
   marriage as the "legally recognized union of one man and one woman,"
   but at the same time create a parallel system of civil unions for
   same-sex couples that went beyond existing "domestic partnership" and
   "reciprocal beneficiaries."

   In Nov. 2003, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruled that
   barring same-sex couples from civil marriage was unconstitutional. The
   Senate then asked the court for an advisory opinion on the
   constitutionality of a proposed law that would bar same-sex couples
   from civil marriage but would create civil unions as a parallel
   institution, with all the same benefits, protections, rights and
   responsibilities under law. In February, the court answered,
   "segregating same-sex unions from opposite-sex unions cannot possibly
   be held rationally to advance or preserve" the governmental aim of
   encouraging "stable adult relationships for the good of the individual
   and of the community, especially its children." Under this decision,
   the state of Massachusetts began issuing marriage licenses to same-sex
   couples in May 2004.  It was the first state to do so.

   In 2005, Connecticut became the second state to enact a state law
   providing civil unions to same-sex couples.

   In October 2006, the New Jersey Supreme Court ordered the legislature
   to redefine marriage to include same-sex couples or to establish a
   separate legal structure, such as civil unions, to give same-sex
   couples the same rights as opposite-sex marriage couples.  The New
   Jersey legislature chose to create civil unions in 2007, which gave
   same-sex couples the same legal rights as married, opposite sex
   couples.

   New Hampshire legislation also created civil unions in 2007, making it
   the fourth state to adopt that approach.

   On May 15, 2008, the California Supreme Court ruled that same-sex
   couples should have the right to marry. The ruling took effect mid-June
   and same-sex marriages were performed in California for a short period
   of time before a ballot initiative challenging the decision was
   certified in late summer. Proposition 8 proposed a state constitutional
   amendment that defined marriage as a relationship between a man and a
   woman. It passed in November 2008, again banning same-sex marriage in
   California. Proposition 8 was challenged in early 2009, but the
   California Supreme Court upheld the law in May 2009. In August 2010, a
   federal district judge ruled that the Proposition 8 ban on same-sex
   marriages violated the equal protection provisions of the U.S.
   Constitution. The decision was appealed and enforcement (that would
   allow same-sex marriages to be performed) was delayed until the case
   could be heard by the federal appeals court. In February 2012, the
   9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the earlier district court
   decision that declared Proposition 8 invalid. The 2-1 decision
   reinstated the right to marriage for same-sex couples in California.
   The case was appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court and enforcement was
   delayed until the court decided.

   In October 2008, the Connecticut Supreme Court ruled that a ban against
   same-sex marriage was in violation of the equal protection clause in
   the state constitution. Connecticut became the second state to allow
   same-sex marriage. In 2009, the Connecticut General Assembly passed a
   statute allowing same sex marriage and ending civil unions.

   In April 2009, the Iowa Supreme Court ruled that the state's ban
   against same-sex marriage was unconstitutional. Iowa began performing
   same-sex marriages in June 2009.

   In April 2009, the Vermont legislature passed a bill allowing same-sex
   marriage. Governor Douglas vetoed the bill, but the veto was overridden
   by the legislature. Vermont became the first state where the
   legislature, without judicial mandate, passed a statute to allow
   same-sex marriage.

   The Maine Legislature passed and Governor Baldacci signed legislation
   in May 2009 allowing same sex marriage. Opponents, however,
   successfully petitioned a referendum on the issue for the November
   ballot. Same-sex marriages were delayed, pending the ballot outcome.
   Voters approved the referendum, effectively repealing the law in
   November 2009.

   New Hampshire also passed same-sex marriage legislation in June 2009,
   bringing the total number of states that allowed same-sex marriage to
   five.

   In December 2009, the District of Columbia Council passed a same-sex
   marriage law, subject to a congressional review period. The law took
   effect in March 2010.

   In June 2011, the New York Assembly passed legislation allowing
   same-sex marriage. Governor Andrew Cuomo immediately signed the
   legislation. The law took effect 30 days after signing, making same-sex
   marriages available in New York in late July 2011.

   The pace of state legislative action quickened in 2012. The Washington
   state Legislature and governor approved legislation in February 2012
   establishing same-sex marriage. In June 2012 opponents gathered enough
   signatures to put the issue on the ballot in November. Voters upheld
   the law and same-sex marriages began on Dec. 6, 2012.

   The New Jersey Legislature passed a same-sex marriage bill in February
   2012, but the measure was vetoed by Governor Christie. The legislature
   had until January 2014 to override the veto with two-thirds of the
   Assembly and Senate needed to do so. With the state court decision in
   October 2013 that the state must recognize same-sex marriage, New
   Jersey officials are considering whether to pass legislation on
   same-sex marriage to answer some questions left unanswered in the court
   decision.

   Maryland passed a same-sex marriage bill in February 2012 that was
   signed by Governor O’Malley on March 1. Opponents of the legislation
   obtained enough signatures to file a referendum challenging the law.
   Voters upheld the law and it went into effect on Jan. 1, 2013.

   In November 2012, voters in Maine approved a ballot measure legalizing
   same-sex marriage. It is the first time voters had been asked to
   legalize same-sex marriage rather than prohibit it. The measure went
   into effect Dec. 29, 2012.

   The Maine initiative and the Washington and Maryland referendum votes
   to uphold the same-sex marriage laws marked a watershed. They were the
   first instances of public votes to establish same-sex marriage. On the
   same date, Minnesota voters voted against a constitutional prohibition
   of same-sex marriages. Those four votes reversed a long trend of public
   votes against same sex marriage. Previously, voters in 32 states had
   consistently voted to limit same-sex marriage. Thirty states had
   enacted constitutional provisions to define marriage as a relationship
   between a man and a woman and prohibit same-sex marriages. Between 1998
   and May 2012, only one public vote out of 32 had not supported
   restrictions on same-sex marriage. (In 2006, Arizona voters rejected a
   constitutional provision prohibiting same-sex marriage and then
   approved a prohibition in 2008.)

   Legislative actions supporting same sex-marriage continued in
   2013. Rhode Island passed same-sex marriage legislation and Governor
   Chafee signed the bill into law on May 2, 2013. The bill converted
   civil unions to marriage and recognizes civil unions and same sex
   marriage from other jurisdictions. The law went into effect Aug. 1,
   2013.

   Delaware passed same-sex marriage legislation and Governor Markell
   signed the bill into law on May 7, 2013. The law converts civil unions
   to marriage and recognizes civil unions and same sex marriage from
   other jurisdictions. The law went into effect July 1, 2013.

   Minnesota passed a law allowing same-sex marriage in May 2013. The law
   went into effect on Aug. 1, 2013.

   On June 26, 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to decide the
   California challenge to Proposition 8, ruling on technical grounds that
   it did not have jurisdiction. The effect of that decision was to
   reinstate the federal district court decision overturning Proposition
   8, thus allowing same sex marriage in California. Amid some confusion
   about timing, same-sex marriages began shortly after the decision.

   On the same day, the Supreme Court decided a challenge to the federal
   DOMA law that limited over one thousand federal benefits to marriages
   defined as a relationship between a man and a woman. It ruled that the
   restriction violated equal protection and due process for married
   same-sex couples. The decision emphasized the dominance of state law
   defining marriage and required the federal government to recognize
   same-sex marriages granted under state law. Federal agencies are now
   working through the challenges of how to deal with same-sex couples
   married in a state that allows same-sex marriage but who now live in a
   state that does not allow same-sex marriage.

   The court’s federal DOMA decision triggered a challenge to New Jersey’s
   law providing only civil unions for same-sex couples. The earlier New
   Jersey Supreme Court decision had required the state to offer the same
   legal rights to same-sex couples that married, opposite sex couples
   had. The federal government did not recognize civil unions as marriages
   so couples in a civil union could not have access to the same federal
   benefits. The state district court ordered the state to allow same-sex
   couples to marry, but delayed enforcement of the order for three weeks
   to allow the state to appeal. The state requested a further delay to
   allow it to prepare the appeal, but both the district court and the
   state Supreme Court denied the request on the grounds that the state
   was unlikely to win on appeal. The order to allow same-sex marriages
   went into effect and Governor Christie announced that the state would
   drop its appeal, making same sex marriages legal in New Jersey.

   Hawaii held a special session in October and November to consider
   same-sex marriage legislation. The Senate passed the initial bill on
   Oct. 30. The House Finance and Judiciary Committees held joint hearings
   that ran five days (55 hours of testimony) and included more than
   1,000 people testifying. On Nov. 8, the House passed the Senate bill
   with an amendment that strengthened exemptions that allow religious
   organizations to not provide facilities, goods or services for the
   marriage or celebration of the marriage if it violates their religious
   beliefs. The Senate agreed to the amendment. Governor Neil Abercrombie
   signed the legislation on Nov. 13. It took effect on Dec. 2, 2013.

   On Nov. 5, the Illinois House passed SB 10 which had already passed in
   the Illinois Senate. For several months, House leaders had delayed the
   vote over concerns the bill might not have enough support. Governor Pat
   Quinn signed the legislation on Nov. 20.  Same-sex marriages were set
   to begin on June 1, 2014.

   The New Mexico Supreme Court ruled on Dec. 19, 2013, that same-sex
   couples are allowed to marry. Before the ruling, New Mexico was the
   only state without a law or constitutional provision explicitly banning
   or allowing same-sex marriage. Some county officials had issued
   marriage licenses to same-sex couples in previous years. After the U.S.
   Supreme Court ruling in June 2013, the state asked the New Mexico
   Supreme Court to make a decision regarding their state policy. The
   state Supreme Court heard arguments in October and ruled on Dec. 19,
   2013, that same-sex couples in the state were allowed to marry. The
   ruling went into effect immediately.

NAVIGATE

   Home
     * About State Legislatures
     * Agriculture and Rural Development
     * Civil and Criminal Justice
     * Education
     * Elections and Campaigns
     * Energy
     * Environment and Natural Resources
     * Ethics
     * Financial Services and Commerce
     * Fiscal Policy
     * Health
     * Human Services
          + Child Support and Family Law
          + Child Welfare
          + Early Care and Education
          + Hunger and Nutrition
          + Same Sex Marriage
          + Welfare and Poverty
     * Immigration
     * International
     * Labor and Employment
     * Military and Veterans Affairs
     * Redistricting
     * State-Tribal Institute
     * Telecommunications and Information Technology
     * Transportation

   Share this:
   GetStarted
   We are the nation's most respected bipartisan organization providing
   states support, ideas, connections and a strong voice on Capitol Hill.

NCSL Member Toolbox

Members Resources

     * Get Involved With NCSL
     * Jobs Clearinghouse
     * Legislative Careers
     * NCSL Staff Directories
     * Staff Directories
     * StateConnect Directory
     * Terms and Conditions

Policy & Research Resources

     * Bill Information Service
     * Legislative Websites
     * NCSL Bookstore
     * State Legislatures Magazine

Accessibility Support

     * Tel: 1-800-659-2656 or 711
     * Accessibility Support
     * Accessibility Policy

Meeting Resources

     * Calendar
     * Online Registration

Press Room

     * Media Contact
     * NCSL in the News
     * Press Releases

Denver

   7700 East First Place
   Denver, CO 80230
   Tel: 303-364-7700 | Fax: 303-364-7800

Washington

   444 North Capitol Street, N.W., Suite 515
   Washington, D.C. 20001
   Tel: 202-624-5400 | Fax: 202-737-1069
   Go 24378 ____________________   [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)__
   Copyright 2019 by National Conference of State Legislatures
   Website Feedback

   This website uses cookies to analyze traffic and for other purposes.
   You consent to the use of cookies if you use this website. (1) Continue
   (1) Our online privacy policy

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-24.txt>

   Skip to main content

   (Submit) Languages
     * Français
     * English
     * Español
     * عربي

   NEWS
     * Live News
     * France
     * Africa
     * Middle East
     * Americas
     * Europe
     * Asia/Pacific
     * Business/Tech
     * Sports
     * Culture
     * Infographics

   ON TV
     * France 24 live
     * Shows
     * News
     * Accessibility
     * TV guide

   On social media
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   (Submit) Services
     * Newsletters
     * Watch France 24 on TV
     * Apps
     * Connected TV
     * RSS feeds
     * Travel
     * Hotels

   (Submit) About France 24
     * Who are we ?
     * Press room
     * Contact us
     * Advertising
     * Join us
     * Legal notice
     * Privacy
     * Cookies

   (Submit) France Médias Monde websites
     * The Observers
     * RFI
     * Learn French
     * RFI Music
     * RFI Instrumental
     * RFI Planète Radio
     * MCD
     * InfoMigrants
     * CFI
     * Académie
     * France Médias Monde

   © 2019 Copyright France 24 – All rights reserved. France 24 is not
   responsible for the content of external websites. Audience ratings
   certified by ACPM/OJD

   Live
   (Submit)

    1.
    2. /France

     * France
     * LGBT rights
     * Gay marriage

France marks five-year anniversary of same-sex marriage

   Date created : 23/04/2018 - 16:45Latest update : 23/04/2018 - 18:27
   Gérard Julien, AFP | Vincent Autin and Bruno Boileau became the first
   same-sex couple to wed in France when they married on May 29, 2015 in
   the southern city of Montpellier
   Text by: FRANCE 24 Follow

   As couples in France mark five years on Monday since same-sex marriage
   was made legal with the hashtag #5ansMariagePourTous, ex-president
   François Hollande expressed regret at not having done more to advance
   the rights of “non-traditional” families.
   ADVERTISING
   (Submit) Read more

   France’s government voted to pass a bill legalising same-sex marriage
   and adoption on April 23, 2013, after months of intense lobbying for
   and against the legislation. The anti-gay marriage movement, Manif Pour
   Tous (or Protest For All), mounted a fierce campaign against the
   measure, at one point claiming to have drawn 1.4 million people to
   demonstrate in the streets of Paris.

   A little more than a month after the law passed, Vincent Autin and
   Bruno Boileau became the first same-sex couple to wed in France in a
   highly publicised ceremony in the southern city of Montpellier. More
   than 40,000 same-sex couples have since married in France, according to
   the national statistics office Insee.

   Five years on, people across the country have taken to social media to
   celebrate the landmark decision by sharing their own wedding photos.

   “It was a much-discussed reform, and I never thought it would be simple
   to pass,” Hollande, who was president at the time, recalled in an
   interview with BuzzFeed published on Sunday. “It was a parliamentary
   battle, a major political and media battle. But what makes a reform
   interesting isn’t what led to its adoption, but its irreversibility…
   And now, five years later, who really questions marriage equality and
   adoption for same-sex couples?”

   #5ansmariagepourtous #5ans #mariagepourtous #mariage #égalité #husbands
   #love #samelawsforeveryone

   Une publication partagée par @ charles_bosseboeuf le 23 Avril 2018 à
   12 :29 PDT

   Irène Théry, a sociologist and expert in family affairs, credited the
   law with changing the way people in France view the LGBTQ community.

   “The law on marriage equality… recognised that a same-sex relationship
   could, as a couple, integrate our notion of family and conceptions of
   parenthood. It was an extremely powerful force for integration,” Théry
   told French daily Le Monde.

   “Same-sex couples, married or not, have greater legitimacy today than
   before the law”.

   Battle over assisted reproduction

   Although opposition to same-sex marriage appears to have waned, the
   government has yet to tackle the issues of medically assisted
   reproduction and surrogacy – two points staunchly opposed by social
   conservatives and religious groups.

   Under French law, assisted reproduction is limited to heterosexual
   couples and surrogacy is prohibited. This means that lesbian couples
   and single women who want to have a baby using their own DNA are often
   forced to go abroad for costly procedures.

   Hollande expressed remorse for having failed to fulfill his promise to
   legalise equal access to medically assisted reproduction for
   “nontraditional” families.

   “I regret that we didn’t go in that direction at the end of my term,
   because it’s hypocritical. Sure, lesbian couples are allowed to have
   children, except they’re forced to go to Belgium or Spain, under less
   than ideal or dignified conditions. Because even if our laws recognise
   these children, they do not permit for them to be conceived in France.”

   “When I met women who first thanked me for legalising same-sex marriage
   and adoption, but then told me they had found a solution outside of
   France, I said to myself that I should have taken the next step,” he
   added.

   Hollande said he is opposed to surrogacy on the grounds that it
   “commodifies the body”, but urged women in France to continue the fight
   for equal access to assisted reproduction.

   “It’s inevitable. And even if they don’t have the right, they should
   fight so that future generations might have it,” he said.
   Text by: FRANCE 24 Follow
   Related content
   18/01/2019

   From Keira Knightley’s Colette to everything you need to know about
   Champagne, FRANCE 24’s week in review
   17/01/2019

   France will remain 'militarily engaged' in Middle East through 2019
   15/01/2019

   Seeking to quell Yellow Vest anger, Macron says some of the poor are
   just 'screwing around'
   15/01/2019

   Macron launches his 'national debate' with speech in Normandy
   15/01/2019

   Yellow Vests: Macron to kick-off ‘grand debate’ in Normandy
   14/01/2019

   Macron's open letter on a 'grand debate' comes under fire from rivals,
   yellow vests
   14/01/2019

   Yellow Vest protests: Macron launches national debate with open letter
   to the French
   12/01/2019

   French MPs face unprecedented death threats from 'Yellow Vest'
   protesters
   11/01/2019

   Yellow Vest protesters call for run on French banks
   11/01/2019

   From Charlie Hebdo to Viggo Mortensen to fashion trends for 2019,
   FRANCE 24's week in review
   10/01/2019

   Prosecutor declines to press charges at French cardinal’s cover-up
   trial
   09/01/2019

   French public gave less to charities in 2018

   This page is not available
   (Submit)

   The page no longer exists or did not exist at all. Please check the
   address or use the links below to access the requested content.

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-25.txt>

   [index@promo&td_device=desktop&td_part=css&td_section=lifestyle+gay-mar
   riage] #publisher

   Skip to:
          Main Content
          Site Navigation
          Site footer
          Site Map

     * Log in
     *
     * No account?
     * Sign up
     * Log out

   news.com.au — Australia’s #1 news site
   [?path=components.header-desktop&t_domain=news.com.au&t_product=newscom
   au]
     *
          + News.com.au
          + National
          + World
          + Lifestyle
          + Travel
          + Entertainment
          + Technology
          + Finance
          + Sport
          + Search

   [?path=components.nav-primary&t_domain=news.com.au&t_product=newscomau]
   [index@promo&td_device=desktop&td_part=top&td_section=lifestyle+gay-mar
   riage]
     * gay marriage

Same-sex marriage is now legal in Australia

   THE final step to make same-sex marriage legal in Australia has now
   been completed with couples able to marry by January next year.
   [charis-chang.png]
   Charis Chang@CharisChang2
   [authorBlock@2.0.0]
   news.com.auDecember 8, 20179:28am
   [9b30e1540179d520f7eae3de72956bbf]

   The Governor-General, Sir Peter Cosgrove receiving the Prime Minister
   Malcolm Turnbull and Attorney-General, Senator the George Brandis for
   the assent of the Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious
   Freedoms) Bill 2017, at Government House in Canberra. Picture: Kym
   SmithSource:News Corp Australia

   SAME-SEX marriage is officially legal in Australia after the
   Governor-General signed off on the historic laws today.

   Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull visited Sir Peter Cosgrove in Canberra
   for the signing of the bill this morning — the last step to change
   Australia’s laws.

   “I assent to this Act ... the Act now passes into Australian law,” Sir
   Cosgrove said as he signed a copy of the bill.

   The government has set Saturday, December 9 as the date the new laws
   will take effect and the Attorney-General’s office has confirmed this
   means weddings can take place from January 9. This is because couples
   need to lodge a Notice of Intended Marriage one month before their
   ceremonies.

   Couples who got married overseas will have their unions automatically
   recognised under Australia law on Saturday.

Governor-General gives the SSM bill royal assent0:33

   It's official! Marriage Equality has been assent into law by the
   Governor General. Same-sex marriages can take place in Australia from
   January 9th.
     * December 7th 2017
     * a year ago
     * /display/newscorpaustralia.com/Web/NewsNetwork/Network
       News/National/

   [player]

   Ahead of the historic moment, an elated Mr Turnbull encouraged his
   fellow Australians to start making wedding preparations.

   “It is a big Australian hug for all same-sex couples, saying we love
   and respect you, now go out there and get married,” he told the Seven
   Network.

   The new laws cleared parliament unchanged on Thursday evening after a
   marathon debate lasting 56 hours and despite a push from conservative
   MPs for additional religious protections.

   Only four MPs in the House of Representatives voted against the private
   bill, a week after the legislation was agreed to by the Senate.
   Celebrations after the Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious
   Freedoms) Bill 2017 passes in the House of Representatives Chamber, at
   Parliament House in Canberra.

   Celebrations after the Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious
   Freedoms) Bill 2017 passes in the House of Representatives Chamber, at
   Parliament House in Canberra.Source:News Corp Australia

   Mr Turnbull described the postal survey on same-sex marriage as a
   game-changer for the issue, now resolved after years of debate.

   He criticised Labor for not progressing the matter when in office but
   said the victory now belongs to the whole parliament.

   The passage of the laws would not put religious freedoms at risk or
   traditional marriage, he insisted.

   “People that think gay people making a commitment is a threat to her
   marriage fails to realise that the real threat is lack of commitment,”
   Mr Turnbull said.

   A clearly emotional attorney-general shared a drink with Labor senator
   Penny Wong after the vote to celebrate.

   “To see the galleries of the House of Representatives just explode
   spontaneously was something that was unforgettable,” Senator George
   Brandis told ABC radio.

   “Of all the things I’ve done since I’ve been in parliament I think this
   is the one that will be most consequential.”

   Labor leader Bill Shorten said the new law spoke for a modern,
   “inclusive and fair” Australia.

   — With AAP

   The Governor-General, Sir Peter Cosgrove receiving the Prime Minister
   Malcolm Turnbull and Attorney-General, Senator the George Brandis for
   the assent of the Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious
   Freedoms) Bill 2017, at Government House in Canberra. Picture: Kym
   Smith

   The Governor-General, Sir Peter Cosgrove receiving the Prime Minister
   Malcolm Turnbull and Attorney-General, Senator the George Brandis for
   the assent of the Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious
   Freedoms) Bill 2017, at Government House in Canberra. Picture: Kym
   SmithSource:News Corp Australia
   [index@promo&td_device=desktop&td_part=bottom&td_section=lifestyle+gay-
   marriage]

trending in lifestyle

     * 300
       NEW YORK, NY - SEPTEMBER 13: Rihanna attends Rihanna's 4th Annual
       Diamond Ball at Cipriani Wall Street on September 13, 2018 in New
       York City. (Photo by Theo Wargo/Getty Images) [thumbnail]
       The Beauty Diary: We test Rihanna’s new Pro Filt’r Instant R...
     * 287
       Business leader instructing focused Indian female assistant.
       Serious and upset woman leaning head on hand and listening to boss
       during coffee break. Teamwork or company hierarchy concept
       [thumbnail]
       ‘The interviewer for my dream job was a guy I ghosted’
     * 251
       jf skdjfsd kfjdk fdkfjskff dkj [thumbnail]
       Pill testing at music festivals: Hundreds attend Pill Testin...
     * 207
       Beautiful elegant woman drinking sangria [thumbnail]
       Single tax: Kate Iselin on the cost of going it alone
     * 120
       Raph and Rory, creators of Peak [thumbnail]
       Peak Chocolate: Bondi company rejected on Shark Tank earns $...

   [trending&td_heading=trending%2520in%2520lifestyle&td_showcount=true&td
   _showimages=true&type=article]
     * Share on Facebook
       Share on Facebook
     * Share on Twitter
       Share on Twitter
     * Share via Email
       Share via Email

   Leave a comment

Add your comment to this story

   To join the conversation, please Log in. Don't have an account? Sign up

   Join the conversation, you are commenting as Logout
   Jump back to top

MORE IN gay marriage

     *

Question PM didn’t answer on religion
       [82d6baee4e6b8a80c94d0b78ca1a9cb9]
     *

Warning over transgender law change
       [f2b264ed2ec0e11b3390c6edea5bee85]
     *

Wedding mag closes after controversy
       [0dcf4f94a4784ecd693423ee45eb453d]
     *

The consequences of gay marriage
       [987fe8e2b87f84dc6b38559648f5f273]
     *

Secret meeting of marriage vote
       [86e170382a96c8df01c05f2151299fc1]
     *

World’s most expensive wedding cake
       [5f56cd3a7c543e3da87b480d8dce6de9]
     *

New twist in Bert and Ernie gay claim
       [0052525f118a82340adbfe111db6a3c6]
     *

Bert and Ernie truth revealed
       [595c5f6cda46df07f51dd0541b3f25a0]

   [more-in&td_module-header=gay+marriage&td_storyID=070e3df2531bdab8663fd
   74c9cd5486c]

     * Follow us
     *
     *
     *

   Advertise
   About us
   Newsletters
   Connect
   Be rewarded for your opinions
     * Privacy Policy
     * Relevant Ad Opt-Out
     * Cookie Policy
     * Terms & Conditions

   A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the
   content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make
   both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and
   other sites. Find out more about our policy and your choices, including
   how to opt-out.

   News Pty Limited Copyright © 2019. All times AEDT (GMT +11).

   Powered by WordPress.com VIP

   [?articleGMT=11&path=components.footer-desktop&t_domain=news.com.au&t_p
   roduct=newscomau]

   [index@promo&td_device=desktop&td_part=js&td_section=lifestyle+gay-marr
   iage] [gay-marriage] [router@2.0.0&td_display=desktop&t_trouter=true]

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-26.txt>

   Your browser does not support Javascript. Please turn Javascript on to
   get the best experience from rte.ie

     * News
     * Sport
     * Entertainment
     * Business
     * Lifestyle
     * Culture

     * Player
     * TV
     * Radio
     * Weather
     * More

   Weather
   ____________________ (Submit) Go
     * RTÉ Brainstorm
     * Gaeilge
     * Tech & Innovation

     * RTÉ Archives
     * RTÉ Orchestras
     * Century Ireland

     * Aertel
     * Lotto
     * RTÉ Shop

     * RTÉ Jr
     * TRTÉ
     * Watch Live

     * About RTÉ

   National Weather Warning

Get live updates from RTÉ

   (Submit)

   1

Click icon above
to allow notifications
from RTÉ

   2

Select 'Allow'
Once prompted
by Chrome

   Maybe later

                     Ireland says Yes to same-sex marriage

   Updated / Sunday, 24 May 2015 02:53

   Thousands gather in Dublin Castle to hear the declaration of the
   same-sex marriage referendum Thousands gather in Dublin Castle to hear
   the declaration of the same-sex marriage referendum

   IFRAME:
   //www.rte.ie/news/results/2015/referendum/ssm/widget_iframe.html

   Ireland has become the first country in the world to bring in same-sex
   marriage by a popular vote.

   The official result was declared at Dublin Castle shortly before 7pm
   this evening.

   A total of 1,201,607 people (62.1%) voted Yes and 734,300 (37.9%) voted
   No.

   The total poll was just under two million.

   The result has been described as a social revolution, an expression of
   decency and a country coming of age.

   The highest Yes vote, at almost 75%, was declared in Dublin South East.

   One constituency voted No; the result in Roscommon-South Leitrim saw
   over 51% of voters there reject the marriage referendum proposal.

   The tightest margin was in Donegal South - West where it was Yes by
   just a whisker, with only 33 votes separating the sides there.

   More people voted in the same-sex marriage referendum than in any other
   since the foundation of the State, reflecting the growth in the size of
   the electorate, and the substantial numbers that applied for late
   registration.

   Over 1.9 million voters turned out yesterday compared with over 1.8
   million who voted in 2004 in the poll to restrict Irish citizenship.

   Over 1.6 million voted in the divorce referendum 20 years ago.

   Meanwhile, the referendum on the age of presidential candidates has
   been defeated.

   In the Carlow-Kilkenny Dáil by-election, Fianna Fáil's Bobby Aylward
   has been elected.

   Reacting to the result, Taoiseach Enda Kenny said "Gone are the dark
   clouds that had me down, it's gonna be a bright, bright shiny day".

   Mr Kenny said today "Ireland is a small country with a big message",
   adding "people truly answered Ireland's call".

   Tánaiste Joan Burton said "Together the people of Ireland have struck a
   massive blow against discrimination."

   Quoting the late US LGBT rights activist Harvey Milk, she said, "Hope
   will never be silent."

   She also thanked her predecessor, former Labour party leader Eamon
   Gilmore, saying without him "today would not have happened."

   Mr Gilmore stood over his comments made in mid-2012, that gay marriage
   was "the civil rights issue of a generation".

   He said this referendum "was a moment where Irish people expressed
   their decency and their generosity".

   Minister for Justice Frances Fitzgerald said that legislation will be
   brought in this summer to make same sex-marriage a reality.

   Minister for Health Leo Varadkar said it was a special day.

   "It seems to me that the Irish people had their minds made up on this
   some time ago," he said.

   Minister for Agriculture Simon Coveney said right across the country
   there is a big endorsement of a new attitude towards a minority that
   had been discriminated against for far too long.

   Rory O'Neill, aka Panti Bliss, said: "It's an incredible day that even
   two years we could not have even dared to imagine."

   Crowds began gathering in the upper courtyard of Dublin Castle from
   around 9.45am on Saturday morning to watch the declarations being
   announced for the results of the referendums on the big screen.

     Lines of people outside Dublin Castle to get in for the #MarRef
     declaration pic.twitter.com/HPIHOdIvkj
     — Conor Barrins (@ConorBarrins) May 23, 2015

     Huge crowd now at Dublin castle #MarRef #rtenews
     pic.twitter.com/RJi2vNnubH
     — Martina Fitzgerald (@MartinaFitzg) May 23, 2015

   Senator David Norris, one of the key figures in having homosexual
   acts decriminalised in the 1990s, said it was a wonderful result.

   "I believe that by the end of today gay people will be equal in this
   country. I think it's wonderful," he said.

   "It's a little bit late for me. As I said the other day I've spent so
   much time pushing the boat out that I forgot to jump on and now it's
   out beyond the harbour on the high seas, but it's very nice to look
   at."

   Director of the National Youth Council of Ireland Mary Cunningham
   praised a new generation of voters for making a difference.

   "It represents a victory not only for the Yes side, but also for Irish
   society, Irish democracy and the young people of Ireland," she said.

   "This result sends a strong message to young people across Ireland that
   they are valued equally; and that we want to promote respect and
   eliminate homophobia."

   Yes Equality spokesperson Grainne Healy said: "It's an extraordinary
   day.

   "We were going out not telling people to vote Yes, we were going out
   saying I am voting yes and I'd like to tell you why. That's how the
   campaign started and that's how it has worked."

   Senator Katherine Zappone said she had anticipated a Yes but was not
   sure how wide the margin would be.

   She said every person who had voted Yes and all of those who had
   campaigned had got Ireland to this point.

   No campaigners congratulate Yes side

   A number of campaigners against same-sex marriage have offered
   congratulations to the Yes side.

   David Quinn of the Iona Institute said: "Obviously there's a certain
   amount of disappointment but also I'm quite philosophical about the
   outcome."

     Congratulations to the Yes side. Well done. #MarRef
     — David Quinn (@DavQuinn) May 23, 2015

   He said that going forward the institute will continue to affirm the
   importance of the "biological ties and of motherhood and fatherhood".

   In a statement, the Iona Institute said it was "proud to have helped
   represent the many hundreds of thousands of Irish people who would
   otherwise have had no voice in this referendum because all of the
   political parties backed a Yes vote".

More on

     * news
     * Ireland
     * Politics
     * vote 2015
     * by-election
     * referendum
     * Vote 2015

More for you.

   Read
     * News
     * Sport
     * Entertainment
     * Lifestyle
     * Culture
     * Business
     * Weather
     * Gaeilge
     * Tech & Innovation
     * RTÉ Brainstorm

   Watch & Listen
     * RTÉ Player
     * RTÉ Player International
     * RTÉ Live
     * TV
     * Radio

   RTÉ Services
     * RTÉ Archives
     * RTÉ Orchestras
     * RTÉ Shop
     * Century Ireland
     * Lotto
     * RTÉ Aertel

   Youth
     * TRTÉ
     * RTÉJr

   Help
     * Contact
     * Feedback
     * Complaints
     * Terms & Conditions
     * Individual Rights Guide
     * RTÉ Privacy Policy

   Information
     * Information
     * About RTÉ
     * License Fee
     * Careers
     * Annual Report
     * Advertise with RTÉ
     * 2rn
     * SAORVIEW
     * Newsletters

   Follow RTÉ

   RTÉ.ie is the website of Raidió Teilifís Éireann, Ireland's National
   Public Service Broadcaster.
   RTÉ is not responsible for the content of external internet sites.
   Images courtesy of Inpho.ie and Getty Images

   © RTÉ 2019

   RTÉ uses cookies in accordance with our Cookie Policy
   More Info I Understand

   [auto-user-sync]

   (Submit) (Submit) (Submit) (Submit)
   (Submit) (Submit)

   [tr?id=513914798814299&ev=PageView&noscript=1]
   [tr?id=532150710329020&ev=PageView&noscript=1]
   [tr?id=1055413517874698&ev=PageView&noscript=1]
   [p?c1=2&c2=6422572&cv=2.0&cj=1] tester

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-27.txt>

    #New Jersey Politics

   Skip to Article

   (Submit) Menu
     * Home
     * (Submit)
     * News (Submit) ›‹
          + (Submit) Back To Main Menu
          + News
          + News by County (Submit) ›‹
               o (Submit) Back To Main Menu
               o Atlantic
               o Bergen
               o Burlington
               o Camden
               o Cape May
               o Cumberland
               o Essex
               o Gloucester
               o Hudson
               o Hunterdon
               o Mercer
               o Middlesex
               o Monmouth
               o Morris
               o Ocean
               o Passaic
               o Salem
               o Somerset
               o Sussex
               o Union
               o Warren
          + All Newspapers (Submit) ›‹
               o (Submit) Back To Main Menu
               o The Star-Ledger
               o The Times of Trenton
               o The Jersey Journal
               o South Jersey Times
               o Hunterdon County Democrat
               o Independent Press
               o Horse News
          + Business
          + Crime
          + Data
          + Education
          + Health
          + Lottery
          + Obituaries
          + Politics
          + Traffic
          + Weather
     * Politics (Submit) ›‹
          + (Submit) Back To Main Menu
          + Politics Home
          + Opinion
          + The Auditor
     * Sports (Submit) ›‹
          + (Submit) Back To Main Menu
          + Sports Home
          + Devils
          + Eagles
          + Flyers
          + Giants
          + Jets
          + Knicks
          + Mets
          + Phillies
          + Rangers
          + Red Bulls
          + Rutgers Basketball
          + Rutgers Football
          + Rutgers Sports
          + Seton Hall
          + Sixers
          + Yankees
     * Entertainment (Submit) ›‹
          + (Submit) Back To Main Menu
          + Entertainment Home
          + Jersey's Best
          + Celebrities
          + Comics
          + Events
          + Food & Dining
          + Arts
          + Indulge
          + Movies
          + Music
          + Puzzles
          + Shore
          + TV
     * High School Sports (Submit) ›‹
          + (Submit) Back To Main Menu
          + NJ High School Sports LIVE
          + Football
          + Wrestling
          + Boys Basketball
          + Girls Basketball
          + Boys Bowling
          + Girls Bowling
          + Boys Fencing
          + Girls Fencing
          + Boys Ice Hockey
          + Girls Ice Hockey
          + Boys Skiing
          + Girls Skiing
          + Boys Swimming
          + Girls Swimming
          + Boys Winter Track
          + Girls Winter Track
          + Off Season Sports (Submit) ›‹
               o (Submit) Back To Main Menu
               o Baseball
               o Boys Cross Country
               o Girls Cross Country
               o Field Hockey
               o Football
               o Boys Golf
               o Girls Golf
               o Gymnastics
               o Boys Lacrosse
               o Girls Lacrosse
               o Boys Soccer
               o Girls Soccer
               o Softball
               o Boys Tennis
               o Girls Tennis
               o Boys Track and Field
               o Girls Track and Field
               o Boys Volleyball
               o Girls Volleyball
               o Wrestling
          + Bergen County
          + Hudson County
     * NJ High School Sports LIVE
     * NJ Cannabis Insider
     * Legal Notices
     * Videos
     * Obituaries
     * Autos
     * Jobs
     * Real Estate (Submit) ›‹
          + (Submit) Back To Main Menu
          + Homes for Sale
          + New Homes
          + For Rent
          + Foreclosures
          + Commercial
          + Real Estate News
          + Resources (Submit) ›‹
               o (Submit) Back To Main Menu
               o Home Buying
               o Sell My Home
               o Rental Living
               o Home Ideas
               o Mortgages and Loans
               o I'm Moving
          + Place An Ad
     * Rentals
     * Health
     * Classifieds (Submit) ›‹
          + (Submit) Back To Main Menu
          + Obituaries
          + Rentals
          + Pets
          + For Sale
          + Garage Sales
          + Find n Save
          + Fraud Prevention
          + Place An Ad
          + Manage Your Ad
     * Local Businesses (Submit) ›‹
          + (Submit) Back To Main Menu
          + Find A Business
          + Food & Dining
          + Retail Shopping
          + Health & Medicine
          + Personal Care
          + Entertainment
          + Real Estate
          + Automotive
          + Claim Your Business
     * Place An Ad
     * Opinion
     * Follow Us (Submit) ›‹
          + (Submit) Back To Main Menu
          + Visit our Facebook Page
          + Follow us on Twitter
          + View our Instagram photos
          + See our Tumblr feed
          + Visit us on Google Plus
          + See our Pinterest page
     * Subscriptions (Submit) ›
          + (Submit) Back To Main Menu
          + NJ Cannabis Insider
          + NJ High School Sports LIVE
          + Email newsletters
          + The Star-Ledger
          + The Times of Trenton
          + The Jersey Journal
          + South Jersey Times
          + Hunterdon County Democrat

   (Submit)
   (Submit) Back To Main Menu (Submit) Close
   Customize Your Weather
   Set Your Location:
   Enter City and State or Zip Code
   ____________________ Submit
   Congratulations!
   Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
   [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)____
   AccuWeather.com Quick Look
   (Submit) Change your current location »
   Current
   Tonight
   Tomorrow
   (Submit) View Full Weather Report

   NJ.com

   (Submit)
   Subscribe
     * NJ Cannabis Insider
     * NJ High School Sports LIVE
     * Email newsletters
     * The Star-Ledger
     * The Times of Trenton
     * The Jersey Journal
     * South Jersey Times
     * Hunterdon County Democrat

   (Submit) Sign In
   (Submit) Close User Profile
   You are signed in as
   Public Profile Edit Profile Sign Out
   (Submit) Search

    1. New Jersey Politics

N.J. legalizes gay marriage after decade-long push

   Updated October 23, 2013 at 2:30 PM; Posted October 22, 2013 at 6:00 AM
   In first minutes of same-sex marriage in NJ, nine Newark couples tie
   the knot with Mayor Cory Booker officiating
   10

   Gallery: In first minutes of same-sex marriage in NJ, nine Newark
   couples tie the knot with Mayor Cory Booker officiating
   (Submit) Comment

   By Salvador Rizzo

   srizzo@starledger.com

   The Star-Ledger

   TRENTON — Same-sex marriage became law in New Jersey on Monday after
   Gov. Chris Christie conceded defeat in a momentous battle unfolding at
   the state Supreme Court.

   The Republican governor, who vetoed a gay marriage bill last year,
   abruptly withdrew an appeal being heard by the state’s highest court,
   clearing the way for full marriage rights for thousands of gay couples
   in the Garden State.

   Christie’s decision — announced hours after the first same-sex couples
   exchanged their vows in ceremonies all over New Jersey — marked the end
   of a decade-long push for same-sex marriage rights in a state that
   first tried out domestic partnerships in 2004, then civil unions in
   2007.

   Monday’s weddings were held after the state Supreme Court refused
   Christie’s request to delay the first gay marriages while he appealed a
   lower-court ruling.

   New Jersey thus became the 14th state to allow gay marriage — and the
   first to do so in the wake of June’s landmark U.S. Supreme Court
   decision that struck down the Defense of Marriage Act.

   "What’s occurred here is really a great triumph not only for equality
   ... for people to marry whom they love, but also for the rule of law,"
   said Lawrence Lustberg, an attorney for the six families that won the
   case yesterday and the group Garden State Equality.

   As word spread, gay couples, civil-rights advocates and Democratic
   officials rejoiced at rallies and wedding ceremonies across the state,
   while same-sex marriage opponents decried Christie’s decision to give
   up the fight and warned that social conservatives across the country
   would remember if he ever ran for president.

   While indicating that he remains personally opposed to it, Christie
   acknowledged that "same-sex marriage is the law" on Monday. And he
   vowed to enforce it, calling it his "constitutional duty," his office
   said.

   A spokesman for Christie, Colin Reed, said there was no reason to keep
   fighting because "Chief Justice (Stuart) Rabner left no ambiguity about
   the unanimous court’s view on the ultimate decision" in Friday’s
   decision denying the request to delay Monday’s start date for gay
   marriages.

   In a 20-page decision, the court rejected Christie’s underlying
   arguments for opposing gay marriage, with Rabner concluding: "Same-sex
   couples who cannot marry are not treated equally under the law today."

   "Although the governor strongly disagrees with the court substituting
   its judgment for the constitutional process of the elected branches or
   a vote of the people, the court has now spoken clearly as to their view
   of the New Jersey constitution and, therefore, same-sex marriage is the
   law," Reed said.

   Christie had challenged a lower-court ruling from Sept. 27 that allowed
   gay couples to marry in New Jersey. With his appeal withdrawn, that
   ruling by Superior Court Judge Mary Jacobson stands as the law.

   The Republican governor, who is seeking re-election next month and may
   seek the GOP presidential nomination in 2016, had urged lawmakers to
   put the question on the ballot if they wanted to change "the core of a
   2,000-year-old institution" and said state judges should steer clear of
   the issue. He would not answer questions from reporters at an event in
   Gloucester on Monday.

   Christie’s opposition to same-sex marriage became a major campaign
   issue, with Democratic candidate Barbara Buono blasting him in a TV ad
   and interviews broadcast nationwide for opposing something that had the
   support of Democrats, Republicans and independents in New Jersey.

   "Despite Governor Christie’s efforts to block the rights of gays and
   lesbians at every turn, it took a determined effort by brave
   individuals and a unanimous decision by the New Jersey Supreme Court to
   force the governor to drop his appeal," Buono said. "I am thrilled the
   court ended his ability to enforce his bigoted views."

   Hayley Gorenberg, an attorney for the families in the lawsuit and the
   deputy legal director of Lambda Legal, said Christie’s decision "makes
   all the sense in the world legally, and makes all the sense in the
   world for our government, for public officials who are supposed to be
   serving the well-being of everyone in New Jersey."

   "I think we’re done here," Gorenberg said.

   But legal experts reacted more cautiously, saying the Legislature may
   need to pass a law to codify Jacobson’s decision — otherwise a future
   state Supreme Court could overturn it.

   "I think it’s pretty solid ... but it’s not ironclad," said Robert
   Williams, a state constitutional law expert at Rutgers Law School in
   Camden. "Assume somebody could get a case back to the Supreme Court.
   The court would in no way be bound by Judge Jacobson’s decision."

   He added that "there’s likely to be a lot of change in the Supreme
   Court next year" as Christie continues battling Democrats to make the
   court more conservative.

   Democratic leaders in the state Legislature celebrated the "historic
   day" but were undecided on the next step. Senate President Stephen
   Sweeney (D-Gloucester), who had promised an override of Christie’s veto
   by the end of the year, said Monday he’s consulting with lawyers and
   lawmakers on whether to pass a new bill, keep pushing to quash
   Christie’s veto, or do nothing.

   "I was just happy that they dropped the challenge," Sweeney said. "This
   is a day for same sex couples to actually rejoice, realizing that their
   unions together are real and they’re going to stay real. And as far as
   legislation, we’ll figure out what we’re going to do ... in the next
   couple of weeks."

   John Tomicki, president of the New Jersey Coalition to Preserve and
   Protect Marriage, regretted that Christie ended the case before his
   group could file briefs showing "the sociological basis for marriage,
   and why it benefits the society" to keep it to one man and one woman.

   "We hope to work with the Legislature to draft strong language that
   protects religious institutions," Tomicki said, adding that clergy
   should be exempt from officiating same-sex weddings.

   State Sen. Michael Doherty (R-Warren) criticized Christie for dropping
   his appeal. "Governor Christie has acquiesced to the same judicial
   activism that he has long railed against," Doherty said.

   Jacobson’s ruling was the first in the nation to legalize same-sex
   marriage after the U.S. Supreme Court decision, which extended hundreds
   of tax, medical and other legal benefits to same-sex couples, but only
   in states that provided them "lawful marriages." As a state with civil
   unions, New Jersey was left out, the state Supreme Court said.

   Brigid Harrison, a political science professor at Montclair State
   University, said some conservatives may reject Christie for dropping
   the fight, but others will respect that he laid out his opposition
   clearly.

   "This shows a conciliatory form of politics that he talks so much
   about," Harrison said, calling it the mark of "a bipartisan, moderate
   candidate who can do more than win a Republican primary, who can win a
   national election."

   Star-Ledger staff writers Jenna Portnoy and Ryan Hutchins contributed
   to this report.

RELATED COVERAGE

   • As midnight strikes, same-sex couples wed across New Jersey

   • N.J. Supreme Court refuses to block same-sex marriage; first wedding
   expected Monday

   • N.J. Supreme Court: 'No public interest' in blocking gay marriage

   • A timeline of gay marriage in New Jersey

   • More Politics

FOLLOW STAR-LEDGER POLITICS: TWITTER | FACEBOOK

   (BUTTON) View Comments

nj.com

About Us

     * About NJ.com
     * Advertise with us
     * Contact Us
     * Jobs at NJ Advance Media

     * Newsletters
     * Frequently Asked Questions

More on NJ.com

     * Interact
     * Weather
     * Site map
     * Claim your free business listing
     * Sponsor Content
     * Search

     * Place an ad
     * Sell your car
     * Sell/rent your home
     * Post a job
     * Post a free classified ad
     * Apartments & rentals

NJ.com Sections

     * N.J. News
     * Local News
     * N.J. Politics
     * Sports
     * High School Sports
     * Entertainment
     * Food & Recipes
     * Living
     * Business
     * Opinion
     * Jersey's Best

     * Legal Notices
     * Obituaries
     * Jobs
     * Autos
     * Real Estate
     * Rentals
     * Classifieds
     * Shopping Good Deals
     * Local Businesses
     * Special Sections

Contribute to NJ.com

     * Submit an event

Follow Us

     * Twitter
     * Google+

     * Facebook
     * foursquare

Newspaper stories and photos

     * The Star-Ledger | Subscribe
     * The Times of Trenton | Subscribe
     * The Jersey Journal | Subscribe
     * South Jersey Times | Subscribe
     * Hunterdon County Democrat | Subscribe
     * The Warren Reporter
     * Suburban News
     * Horse News
     * Learn more about our newspapers

Mobile

     * iPhone, Android apps | Tablet apps

   Advance Local

   Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes
   acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 5/25/18) and Privacy Policy
   and Cookie Statement (updated 5/25/18).

   © 2018 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us).
   The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed,
   transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written
   permission of Advance Local.

   Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to
   this site.

   Your California Privacy Rights

   Ad Choices

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-28.txt>

   #Pew Research Center for the People and the Press RSS Feed alternate
   alternate JSON Representation Prism XML Version Plain Text Version

   [p?c1=2&c2=19750649&cv=2.0&cj=1]

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MVFJNW

   Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World

   About Follow
   My Account
   Log in View Account Log out
   Donate

   Pew Research Center

   U.S. Politics & Policy
     * Menu
     * Research Areas

     * Home
     * U.S. Politics
     * Media & News
     * Social Trends
     * Religion
     * Internet & Tech
     * Science
     * Hispanics
     * Global
     * Methods

     * Publications
     * Topics
     * Question Search
     * Datasets
     * Methodology
     * Experts

   February 7, 2012

Growing Public Support for Same-Sex Marriage

   UPDATED FEBRUARY 16, 2012, WITH MORE COMPLETE DATA.

   As courts and legislatures address the question of whether same-sex
   couples should be allowed to legally marry, public support for gay
   marriage continues to grow. Polls in 2011 by the Pew Research Center
   for the People & the Press found that an average of 46% favor allowing
   gays and lesbians to marry legally; about the same percentage (45%)
   opposes gay marriage. That marked the first time in 15 years of polling
   that the public has been evenly divided over this issue.

   Just two years earlier, in 2009, a clear majority (54%) opposed gay
   marriage while just 37% favored it. In 1996, when Pew Research first
   asked about letting gay couples marry legally, almost two-thirds of the
   public (65%) opposed the idea, and just 27% favored it.

   There continue to be substantial generational, partisan and racial
   differences over gay marriage. Since the 1990s, however, support has
   increased across most demographic and political groups.

   The shift in opinion has been driven in no small part by generational
   change. Millennials (born after 1980) are the most in favor of gay
   marriage (61% favor), followed by Gen Xers, born between 1965 and 1980
   (48%). There is somewhat less support among Baby Boomers (40%), born
   1946 to 1964, and members of the Silent Generation (32%), born 1928 to
   1945.

   A majority of Democrats (56%) favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry
   legally, as do 51% of independents. By comparison, just 27% of
   Republicans favor same-sex marriage while 66% are opposed. In recent
   years, support for gay marriage has risen sharply among Democrats and
   independents, while Republicans’ views have shown less change.

   Both whites and blacks have become more likely to favor marriage rights
   for gays in recent years, but the increase in support has been larger
   among whites. In 2011, 49% off whites and 36% of blacks said they
   favored allowing gay and lesbian couples to marry legally.

   (For more on attitudes of religious groups toward gay marriage, see
   “Religion and Attitudes toward Same-Sex Marriage,” Pew Forum on
   Religion & Public Life, Feb. 7, 2012.)

Most Say Homosexuality Should Be Accepted

   Since the 1990s, there also has been an increase in the percentage of
   Americans saying that homosexuality should be accepted by society. In
   March 2011, 58% said that homosexuality should be accepted by society,
   while a third (33%) said it should be discouraged.

   In 1994 and 1995, when the Pew Research Center first began asking about
   this topic, opinion was about evenly divided. But by 2000, slightly
   more said homosexuality should be accepted by society than said it
   should be discouraged (50% vs. 41%).

   In 2006, 51% said homosexuality should be accepted, while 38% said it
   should be discouraged. In 2011, support for societal acceptance of
   homosexuality again increased, to 58%.

Report Materials

Table of Contents

     * Most Say Homosexuality Should Be Accepted

Related

   PublicationsOct 5, 2017

The Partisan Divide on Political Values Grows Even Wider

   PublicationsJun 8, 2015

Support for Same-Sex Marriage at Record High, but Key Segments Remain Opposed

   PublicationsJul 1, 2013

Public Divided over Same-Sex Marriage Rulings

   PublicationsJun 24, 2013

Final Court Rulings: Public Equally Interested in Voting Rights, Gay Marriage

   PublicationsJun 6, 2013

Changing Attitudes on Same Sex Marriage, Gay Friends and Family

Topics

     * Gay Marriage and Homosexuality

Popular On Pew Research

   Fact Tank12/13/2018

18 striking findings from 2018

   Fact Tank03/01/2018

Defining generations: Where Millennials end and post-Millennials begin

   Fact Tank09/06/2018

Are you in the American middle class? Find out with our income calculator

   Internet & Tech12/10/2018

Artificial Intelligence and the Future of Humans

   Internet & Tech05/31/2018

Teens, Social Media & Technology 2018

   Get Pew Research Center data by email ____________________ Signup

   Pew Research Center 1615 L St. NW, Suite 800 Washington, DC 20036 USA
   (+1) 202-419-4300 | Main (+1) 202-419-4349 | Fax (+1) 202-419-4372 |
   Media Inquiries

Research Areas

     * U.S. Politics & Policy
     * Journalism & Media
     * Internet & Technology
     * Science & Society
     * Religion & Public Life
     * Hispanic Trends
     * Global Attitudes & Trends
     * Social & Demographic Trends

Follow Us

     * Email Newsletters
     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * Tumblr
     * YouTube
     * RSS

   About Pew Research Center Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan fact
   tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends
   shaping the world. It conducts public opinion polling, demographic
   research, media content analysis and other empirical social science
   research. Pew Research Center does not take policy positions. It is a
   subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts.

     * Copyright 2019 Pew Research Center
     * About
     * Terms & Conditions
     * Privacy Policy
     * Reprints, Permissions & Use Policy
     * Feedback
     * Careers

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WCHNW3G

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-29.txt>

    #publisher alternate

   (Submit)
     * (Submit) Stop animations
     * (Submit) Toggle contrast
     * Report an accessibility issue

    Log in (Submit)
     * Profile
     * (Submit) Logout

   Subscribe now
   Haaretz - Israel News Sunday, January 20, 2019.
   Shvat 14, 5779 Time in Israel: 12:10 AM
   ____________________
   Search
   (textSearch) Click to search

   (Submit)
     * Israel News

   (BUTTON) All sections
     * Israel News (Submit)
          + Israel Election 2019
          + Israeli Culture
          + Sports
          + Travel in Israel
          + Business
          + Security & Aviation
          + Your Daily Brief
          + Podcasts
          + Year in Review 2018
     * U.S. News
     * World News (Submit)
          + Impact Journalism Day 2018
          + Africa, Asia and Australia
          + Americas
          + Europe
          + Jewish Poland
     * Middle East News (Submit)
          + Palestinians
          + Egypt
          + Iraq
          + Syria
          + Iran
          + Turkey
          + Jordan
          + ISIS
     * Jewish World (Submit)
          + Rosh Hashanah
          + Holocaust Remembrance Day
     * Opinion (Submit)
          + Haaretz Editorial
          + Letters to the Editor
          + Haaretz Cartoon
     * Archaeology
     * Science & Health
     * Life & Culture (Submit)
          + Books
          + Television
          + Movies
     * Food
     * Haaretz Magazine
     * E-paper
     * Shabbat Times
     * Weather
     * Plan a Trip to Israel
     * The Power of Giving
     * Israel Real Estate

    Share Tweet Email (Submit)  Zen
     * Israel Election
     * Women's March
     * Blackwater
     * Benny Morris
     * Trump - Iran
     * Netanyahu

     *
          + Profile

   (Submit) Scroll back
   (Submit) Scroll forward

   [1.6833175.3721638439.gif] Home   >   U.S. News

 Colorado Elects First Openly Gay Governor in the U.S. - Rewriting the State's
                               anti-LGBT History

   Colorado was once dubbed the 'hate state' for its anti-LGBT laws

   Alexander Griffing

Send me email alerts for new articles by Alexander Griffing


   (Submit) Send
   (BUTTON) Close
   ____________________
   Email
   Please enter your email
   For a list of Haaretz newsletters, click here. (BUTTON) Close

   Alexander Griffing (Submit) SendSend me email alerts

   Nov 07, 2018 4:18 PM

   comments Print (Submit)   Zen Subscribe now
     *  Shareshare on facebook
     *  Tweet
     * send via email
     * reddit
     * stumbleupon

   Democratic Colorado Governor-elect Jared Polis arrives onstage with
   running mate Dianne Primavera on November 6, 2018 in Denver, Colorado.
   Democratic Colorado Governor-elect Jared Polis arrives onstage with
   running mate Dianne Primavera on November 6, 2018 in Denver,
   Colorado.AFP

     * Trump, the Jews and anti-Semitism: A dangerous double game
     * Fearing for America’s democracy, Jewish women battle to ‘flip
       Congress’ in midterms
     * From New York to Michigan, is a wave of 'anti-Israel' Democrats
       about to reshape U.S. politics

   Latest: An Election Night of Firsts: From Colorado’s Gay and Jewish
   Governor, to Native American and Muslim Women Heading to Congress

   In October 1998, 21-year-old Matthew Shepard was pistol-whipped, tied
   to a fence and left for dead in an act of violence that stunned
   Americans and reshaped their country’s approach to hate crimes.

   Shepard was murdered outside of Laramie, Wyoming, some 30 miles (nearly
   50 kilometers) from Colorado – a state that, 20 years on, is poised to
   elect the country’s first openly gay male governor, Jared Polis.

   Polls out less than a week before the election show the 43-year-old
   Polis, who is currently the congressman for ultra-liberal Boulder near
   Denver, with a five- to eight-point lead over Republican State
   Treasurer Walker Stapleton. A survey by a Democratic consortium,
   including Colorado-based Keating Research, found Polis leading 50
   percent to 42 percent, while the right-leaning Magellan Strategies has
   Polis up by five points.

   The Denver Post notes, however, that in both polls Polis – who will
   also become Colorado's first Jewish governor – has double-digit leads
   among women, unaffiliated voters and people in their 40s or younger.
   U.S. midterms (Submit) skip - Haaretz weekly podcast

   IFRAME:
   https://omny.fm/shows/haaretz-podcast/after-pittsburgh-will-american-je
   ws-punish-trump-i/embed?style=artwork&image=1&share=1&download=1&descri
   ption=1&subscribe=1&foreground=222222&background=f3f3f3&highlight=09a5d
   9

   Haaretz Podcast: After Pittsburgh, will U.S. Jews punish Trump in the
   Midterms?

   >> Analysis: The era of total Trump control is over ■ Benjamin
   Netanyahu just lost the U.S. midterms

   The surveys reflect the demographic changes Colorado has undergone in
   the last 20 years, as the state’s strong economy has pulled in young
   people and minorities from places like California and Texas.

Keep updated: Sign up to our newsletter

   ____________________
   Email*
   Please enter a valid email address
   (Submit) Sign up

Please wait…

Thank you for signing up.

   We've got more newsletters we think you'll find interesting.
   Click here

Oops. Something went wrong.

   Please try again later.
   (Submit) Try again

Thank you,

   The email address you have provided is already registered.
   Close

   A 2017 study found that the rural parts of Colorado, which hold
   significant political power, have undergone a fundamental
   transformation. In the 1980s, minorities were nowhere to be seen. But
   today the Latino population in rural communities is almost as large as
   the white population, which is in steady decline.

   Colorado has long been a mecca of Christian conservative politics, with
   powerful organizations like Colorado Springs-based Focus on the Family
   leading the way in pushing socially conservative policies. The 100 mile
   I-25 corridor between Boulder and Colorado Springs is a microcosm of
   American politics, with college-town Boulder offsetting the largely
   Christian conservative Colorado Springs further south. That city is
   also a military town, including the U.S. Air Force Academy.

   Denver, the state’s capital and most populous city, sits between the
   two, while its suburbs populate much of the space in between. In the
   political battle between Colorado Springs and Boulder, the military
   town has long won out, with millions of dollars from Christian groups
   and conservative causes funding ballot initiatives and statewide policy
   campaigns. But with Polis, that tide may have forever turned.

   ‘The hate state’

   LGBT rights have been a central issue in Colorado politics for decades.
   In June, a major Supreme Court case originating in Colorado – the
   “wedding cake case” – was ruled on in favor of the Trump
   administration. Meanwhile, for decades, anti-LGBT ballot initiatives
   have won in Colorado; the state has often been a testing ground for
   conservative groups considering how to approach these issues on the
   national stage.

   On November 3, 1992, Colorado voters approved Initiative 2 – a move to
   amend the state’s constitution to prohibit government agencies from
   allowing “homosexual, lesbian or bisexual orientation, conduct,
   practices or relationships” to “claim any minority status, quota
   preferences, protected status or claim of discrimination.” In short,
   the state made it illegal for the LGBT community to seek protections as
   a minority, for which critics dubbed Colorado “the hate state.”

   In 1994, the Colorado Supreme Court found the amendment
   unconstitutional and two years later, in a landmark case, the U.S.
   Supreme Court upheld that ruling, saying the amendment violated the
   14th Amendment of the Constitution.

   Same-sex marriage has been legally recognized in Colorado since October
   2014, when the U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear an appeal of lower
   court decisions overturning a ban. Colorado’s state constitutional ban
   on same-sex marriage, which was enacted in 2006 with 56 percent of
   voters in favor, was struck down in a state court in July 2014; the
   move was upheld by a U.S. district court a month later.

   The federal ban on gay marriage, the Defense of Marriage Act, was
   signed into law by President Bill Clinton in 1996. Eight years later,
   then-Colorado Senator Wayne Allard introduced legislation to amend the
   U.S. Constitution to ban gay marriage. Allard’s bill said: “Marriage in
   the United States shall consist only of the union of a man and a woman.
   Neither this Constitution, nor the constitution of any State, shall be
   construed to require that marriage or the legal incidents thereof be
   conferred upon any union other than the union of a man and a woman.”

   Allard’s initiative never made it out of the Senate, but many of his
   critics see it as his legacy given his lack of other legislative
   initiatives in his almost 20-year career in Congress.

   In March 2017, the Democratic majority in the Colorado House of
   Representatives passed, for the third time, a ban on gay “conversion
   therapy” for minors. But that move was later blocked by the
   Republican-majority Colorado Senate.

   LGBT rights in Colorado were again in the headlines when the state was
   at the center of the religious-liberties debate concerning the
   wedding-cake case. In June, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in favor of a
   Colorado baker who, citing his religious objections, refused to bake a
   cake to celebrate the marriage of a same-sex couple.

   This is another reason why, when on October 26 Matthew Shepard’s ashes
   were interned in the National Cathedral in Washington, that gesture had
   a resounding impact across the country.

   “A church welcoming him to rest there in the cathedral forever is a
   huge statement. And I’m proud to be associated with it,” said Bishop
   Gene Robinson to National Public Radio. Robinson is the first openly
   gay Episcopal bishop and a family friend of the Shepards.

   "And it's important that the hate crimes bill that was finally passed
   is named both for Matthew Shepard and for James Byrd, the
   African-American who was dragged behind a truck until he died, because
   it links all the marginalized groups who experienced violence against
   them," Robinson said.

   “These three fellows who beat Matthew Shepard to death, they felt OK
   about that,” Robinson added. “They felt justified about that. And for
   Matthew to come home to the Episcopal Church of which he was a part and
   for the LGBT community far and wide to see that” is so important.

   A victory by Polis, particularly in a state with a history like
   Colorado, is seen as carrying a similar message. Polis is part of a
   wave of LGBT candidates running in state-wide races as Democrats, which
   include: a transgender gubernatorial candidate in Vermont, an incumbent
   lesbian U.S. Senator in Wisconsin and an openly bisexual, atheist
   running for the U.S. Senate from Arizona.

   Homophobia still lingers

   Polis’ run for governor hasn’t been an easy one. He has been attacked
   for his wealth – both Stapleton and Polis are millionaires who have
   self-funded their campaigns. Polis has also been accused of changing
   his name to cover up an assault allegation and has been hit with
   homophobic slurs.

   Police are investigating homophobic bumper stickers attacking Polis
   that appeared in Eagle, Colorado, and in at least one other nearby
   community in recent weeks. The stickers, which misspelled Polis’ first
   name, show a set of lips and read, “Don’t Vote for Jerod Polis or He’ll
   Love Your Ass.”

   Also, an attack ad has been running in the state saying: “Fact-checkers
   found the court granted a temporary restraining order against him and
   that he changed his name 11 months later from Schutz to Polis. That’s
   the truth – he can’t be our Governor.”

   The assault allegation in question refers to a June 1999 altercation in
   which Polis allegedly pushed a female colleague.

   Fox’s local station, the “fact-checkers” that the ad mentions, declared
   the claim in the ad “misleading,” saying, “We did say 'It is true Polis
   changed his name 11 months after the event from Jared Schutz to Jared
   Polis.’” The station, added that “to suggest it was because of this
   incident is an attempt to connect dots that do not factually exist.
   Polis has repeatedly said he changed his name to honor his mother’s
   maiden name.”

   Despite the challenges, Polis, who is married and a father of two, is
   still on track for victory. For many LGBT Americans, a Polis win in
   Colorado would be a ray of light in what many view as dark days for
   minority groups fearing that their rights are under assault.

   Alexander Griffing

   Alexander Griffing

   Haaretz Contributor
   Alexander Griffing

Send me email alerts for new articles by Alexander Griffing

   (Submit) Send
   (BUTTON) Close
   ____________________
   Email *
   Please enter your email

   Alexander Griffing

   For a list of Haaretz newsletters, click here.
   (BUTTON) Close

    Send me email alerts for new articles by Alexander Griffing
   (Submit) Send me email alerts
     *

   Want to enjoy 'Zen' reading - with no ads and just the article?
   Subscribe today
   Subscribe now (BUTTON) Back to page

   skip all comments

Comments

   Sign in to join the conversation.
   (Submit) Add a comment
   ____________________
   Name *
   Required field
   ____________________
   Subject *
   Required field

   ____________________________________________________________
   Comment
   (BUTTON) Send (BUTTON) Cancel

   By adding a comment, I agree to this site’s Terms of use

Thank you!

   Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
   accordance with site policy.

   If you would like to be notified when your comment is published, please
   fill in your email address in the form below.
   ____________________
   Email *
   Please enter valid email
   (Submit) Keep me posted (BUTTON) No thanks

Please wait…

An error has occurred

   Please try again later
   (BUTTON) Close
   Sort comments by [Newest first...]
   (BUTTON) Expand all
    1. 1


       (Submit) (Submit)

       (Submit) Reply (Submit) Close (Submit) Report

    1.


       (Submit) (Submit)

       (Submit) Reply (Submit) Close (Submit) Report

   (Submit) Load more
   Loading more comments

Trending Now

     * Benny Morris and his wife Leah at their home in Srigim.
    'Israel Will Decline, and Jews Will Be a Persecuted Minority. Those
       Who Can Will Flee to America'
     * File photo: Bodies of Peoples Temple mass suicide victims led by
       Jim Jones in Jonestown, Guyana, November 1978.
    To Love and Hate a Mass Murderer: 40 Years On, Jim Jones’ Son Tells
       How It Was at Jonestown
     * Iraqi and foreign mercenary members of a private security company,
       stand on the rooftop of a house in Baghdad, 18 September, 2007.
       Infamous Mercenary Firm Blackwater Planning Major Comeback. First
       Stop: Syria
     * Members of the group Zioness marching at the Celebrate Israel
       Parade in New York City, June 2018.
    What Went Wrong Between Women’s March Leaders and Jewish Women

     * Democratic Party
     * Donald Trump
     * LGBTQ

Trending Now

     * U.S. President Donald Trump shakes hands with Saudi Arabia's Crown
       Prince Mohammed bin Salman in Washington, DC, U.S. March 20, 2018
    Analysis Trump's 'Arab NATO' Push Against Iran Comes to a Head, and
       He's the Biggest Obstacle


    Zvi Bar'el
       2 hours ago This is a primium article
     * Demonstrators at the Women's March in Washington D.C.,January 19,
       2019.
    'Many People Are Trying to Divide Us': Thousands Attend Third Annual
       Women's March


    Amir Tibon


    Danielle Ziri
       2 hours ago
     * Israeli gas platforms in the Mediterranean sea, some 15 miles (24
       km) west of Ashdod
    In First, Arab Countries Admit Israel Into a Regional Alliance. But
       There Is a Price


    Ora Coren
       2 days ago This article contains a video 6 comments 6
     * American troops look out toward the border with Turkey from a small
       outpost near the town of Manbij, northern Syria, February 7, 2018.
       Biggest Challenge Facing New Israeli Army Chief: A Wild Card
       Thousands of Miles Away


    Amos Harel
       16 hours ago This article contains a video
     * An election campaign poster with the image of Israeli Prime
       Minister Benjamin Netanyahu lies among ballot papers at his party's
       election headquarters in Tel Aviv. March 18, 2015 Forget Netanyahu.
       Israelis Have Fallen in Love With an Incoherent Kind of Centrism


    Anshel Pfeffer
       yesterday This is a primium article 4 comments 4

Promoted content

     * A group of people wearing "pussyhats" ride the subway at 42nd
       Street as they head toward the Women'sMarch in Manhattan, New York
       City. January 20, 2018
    How Jews Became 'Too White, Too Powerful' for U.S. Progressive
       Activism


    Sara Yael Hirschhorn
       2 days ago This is a primium article This article contains a video
       4 comments 4
     * A fragment of the Dead Sea Scrolls. 'We come to each new cave with
       zero expectations.'
    The Race for the Next Dead Sea Scrolls, and Why We May Lose It


    Moshe Gilad
       16.01.2019 This is a primium article 8 comments 8
     * The 'March of Flags' through the Old City marking Jerusalem Day,
       the unification of the city under Israeli rule after 1967. May 13,
       2018
    My Settler Sister Knows Her Enemies. First of All, She Hates the
       Germans. Then the Arabs


    Arnon Grunberg
       16.01.2019 This is a primium article 6 comments 6
     * US President Donald Trump addresses a press conference on the
       second day of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) summit
       in Brussels. July 12, 2018
    Opinion The Most Dangerous Thing Trump Could Do Yet, and Its Nightmare
       Fallout for Israel


    Daniel B. Shapiro
       2 days ago This is a primium article This article contains a video
       15 comments 15
     * 'McJesus,' on display at the Haifa Museum of Art.
    Israeli Museum to Remove Divisive 'McJesus' Sculpture


    Noa Shpigel
       2 days ago This is a primium article
     * Efraim Nave with Justice Minister Ayelet Shaked and Attorney
       General Avichai Mandelbl at the Tel Aviv Bar Association in 2017.
       Sex for Judgeship Scandal: Israel's Most Powerful Lawyer Named as
       Main Suspect


    Allison Kaplan Sommer


    Revital Hovel


    Josh Breiner
       16.01.2019 This is a primium article This article contains a video
       1 comments 1
     * Screengrab from Benny Gantz's election video, January 17, 2019.
    Netanyahu's Top Rival Launches Long-awaited Campaign, Reveals Slogan


    Chaim Levinson
       2 days ago This article contains a video 5 comments 5

Security & Aviation

     * Benjamin Netnayahu and the head of the Shin Bet security service,
       Nadav Argaman, 2017. 'Foreign Country' Intends to Intervene in
       Israeli Elections, Shin Bet Chief Says
     * An F-15
    LISTEN: Israeli F-15 Loses Canopy at 30,000 Feet, Pilots Make
       Emergency Landing
     * Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan addresses members of parliament
       from his ruling AK Party (AKP) during a meeting at the Turkish
       parliament in Ankara, Turkey, January 8, 2019.
    'Serious Mistake': Erdogan Snubs Bolton Over Syria Kurds, Blasts U.S.
       for Double-speak
     * China's Vice President Wang Qishan, right, laughs as Israeli Prime
       Minister Benjamin Netanyahu makes a face as they tour the Israeli
       Innovation Summit in Jerusalem, Wednesday, October 24, 2018. As
       Trade With China Grows, U.S. Pressuring Israel to 'Choose Sides'

ICYMI

   (Submit) Scroll back
   An artist’s rendering of Oumuamua. “It waited in place, like a buoy in
   the ocean, until the ‘ship’ of the solar system ran into it.”

If True, This Could Be One of the Greatest Discoveries in Human History

   The Arous brochure for European tourists.

The Mossad Ran a Fake Diving Resort for Tourists in Sudan. This Is the
Incredible Story Behind It

   The Candiru logo

Top Secret Israeli Cyberattack Firm, Revealed

   Discovery of a missing piece of Antikythera Mechanism on the Aegean sea
   floor

Missing Piece of World's Oldest Computer Found on Aegean Seabed

   Consulate staff seen behind the entrance of the Saudi Arabia's
   Consulate in Istanbul. Oct. 17, 2018

The Grisly Hit-job on Khashoggi Is a Disaster for Israel

   Donald Trump meets with Vladimir Putin at the G-20 Summit in Hamburg,
   July 7, 2017

Ex-Mossad Chief: Russia Ran Trump for President

   Relief of throne-bearing soldiers in their native clothing at the tomb
   of Xerxes I, demonstrating the satrapies under his rule: List of
   soldiers under Xerxes' rule: Persian, Median, Elamite, Parthian, Arian,
   Bactrian, Sogdian, Choresmian, Zarangian, Arachosian, Sattagydian,
   Gandharan, Hindush, Sakahaumavarga, Sakatigraxauda, Babyloan, Assyrian,
   Arab, Egyptian, Armenia, Cappadocian, Lydian, Ionian, Saka, Skudrian,
   anotehr Ionian tribe, Libyan and Ethiopian

2,500-year-old Persian Military Base Found in Israel

   An evangelical woman from the U.S. picking grapes in the West Bank.
   Free volunteers is just one of the ways Christians help settlers

Revealed: The Evangelical Money Flowing Into the West Bank

   Herodion fortress

Ring of Roman Governor Who Crucified Jesus Found Near Bethlehem

   A satellite image of Tehran.

Tehran Is Sinking, and It May Be Irreversible

   Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman during a meeting at the United Nations
   in New York on March 27, 2018.

Saudi Arabia and U.S. on Collision Course

   David Myers

'BDS Is Nonviolent. It Wouldn't Have Existed Without the Occupation'

   China's Vice President Wang Qishan, right, laughs as Israeli Prime
   Minister Benjamin Netanyahu makes a face as they tour the Israeli
   Innovation Summit in Jerusalem, Wednesday, October 24, 2018.

'Trump Will Be Furious': Admin Angry Over Growing Israel-China Ties

   Yuval Noah Harari. Minimizes the danger of terrorism, calling it
   'theater'

How Yuval Noah Harari Became the Pet Ideologist of the Liberal Elites

   Weight that may have been used in the First Temple found in Jerusalem
   sifting project

Tiny Artifact With a Biblical Secret Unearthed in Jerusalem

   ToHa Tower on Totzeret Haaretz Street in Tel Aviv.

The Most Talked About New Building in Israel

   Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in the Knesset. July 2018

The Israel You Know Just Ended. You Can Thank Netanyahu

   Naftali Bennett speaks during a vigil, to remember the victims of the
   shooting at the Tree of Life synagogue, Pittsburgh, October 28, 2018.

American Jews May Never Forgive Israel for Its Reaction to the Pittsburgh
Massacre

   Former Obama aides Colin Kahl, Ben Rhodes and Caroline Tess - all
   targeted by Israeli spy firm Black Cube.

Why Israeli Firm Black Cube Went After Obama's Team

   Pakistani news channels dedicated hours to analyzing the likelihood an
   Israeli airplane landed in Islamabad

Did Netanyahu Secretly Visit Pakistan?

   (Submit) Scroll forward

     * FAQ
     * Contact us
     * Newsletters
     * Terms and conditions
     * Privacy policy
     * Cancellation of Digital Subscriptions
     * Management
     * Editorial
     * Accessibility
     * Advertise on Haaretz.com
     * Cookie Settings

   RSS Contact us Download our Android app Download our iOS app gPlus
       Facebook Twitter

     *

Israel News
     * Middle East
     * Jewish World
     * U.S./World
     * Business
     *

Partnerships
     * Haaretz Labels
     * Dan Hotels in Tel Aviv
     * Israel Real Estate
     * Knoji Promo Codes
     * Start-Up Nation Central

     *

Archaeology
     * Life
     * Science
     * Sports
     *

Culture
     * Purim
     * Books
     * Travel
     * Theater
     * Movies and TV
     * Food
     * Poem of the Week

     *

Columnists
     * Bradley Burston
     * Chemi Shalev
     * Allison Kaplan Sommer
     * Anshel Pfeffer
     * David Rosenberg
     *

Opinion
     * Editorial
     * Daily Cartoon
     * Letters to the Editor

     *

הארץ
     * חדשות
     * תרבות
     * ספורט
     * ספרים
     * סרטים מומלצים
     * קפטן אינטרנט
     * בחירות 2019
     * סקר בחירות
     *

TheMarker
     * חדשות
     * שוק ההון
     * צרכנות
     * נדל"ן
     *

Finance
     * ת"א 35
     * מדד תל אביב בנקים 5
     * מניית טבע
     * מניית טאואר

   Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and
   analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides
   extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the
   Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict,
   the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international
   relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the
   West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish
   life in Israel and the Diaspora.

   © Haaretz Daily Newspaper Ltd. All Rights Reserved

   (Submit) close

   IFRAME:
   https://4197153.fls.doubleclick.net/activityi;src=4197153;type=sitek029
   ;cat=hacom848;ord=1?

   publisher

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-30.txt>

   #Marriage latest posts Marriage latest comments Marriage » Feed
   Marriage » Comments Feed The Legal Rights of Civil Unions and Gay
   Marriages What are the Prenuptial Laws of Other Countries alternate
   alternate

   Marriage
     * Getting Married
          + Marriage Certificate
          + Name Change After Marriage
     * Marriage Laws
          + Annulment of Marriage
          + Defense of Marriage Act
     * Common Law
          + Common Law Marriage
          + Common Law Marriage in Texas
     * Marriage License
          + Marriage License
          + Marriage License Requirements
     * Marriage Records
     * Marriage Counseling
          + Couples Counseling
          + Marriage Counseling Questions
          + Save My Marriage

     * Getting Married
          + Marriage Certificate
          + Name Change after Marriage
     * Marriage License
          + Marriage License Requirements
     * Marriage
          + Marriage Vows
          + Marriage Statistics
          + Definition of Marriage
     * Marriage Records
          + Free Marriage Records
     * Marriage Counseling
          + Couples Counseling
          + Save My Marriage
          + Marriage Counseling Questions
     * Common Law Marriage
          + Defense of Marriage Act
          + Common Law Marriage in Texas
          + Annulment of Marriage
     * Common Law
          + Common Law Marriage
          + Common Law Marriage in Texas
     * Gay Marriage
          + Same Sex Marriage
          + Gay Marriage States
          + Gay Marriage Facts
          + Gay Marriage Rights
          + Domestic Partnership
          + Civil Union

   ____________________ SEARCH

Issues About Same Sex Marriage

   Back To Homepage Subscribe To RSS Feed

Issues About Same Sex Marriage

   Share
   Issues About Same Sex Marriage
   Same sex marriage rights have been a very controversial issue in both
   political and religious circles. While same sex marriage is seen in
   early history, the debate for gay marriage rights has become a very
   heated debate. Same sex marriages were first legalized in the
   Netherlands and Massachusetts was the first US state to allow for
   legally legally recognized same sex marriages.
   In fact, less than ten countries or US states recognize same sex
   marriage. Many religious leaders continue to speak out in staunch
   opposition to conferring marriage rights to same sex couples. In fact
   the Catholic church is still very much opposed to same sex marriages.
   In addition, conservatives are opponents of defining same sex
   relationships as marriages. However, Democrats generally support same
   sex marriages, domestic partnerships or civil unions.
   Many opponents of gay marriage are also against same sex couples
   raising children. In fact, the opposition generally quotes outdated
   studies that show detrimental effects on children raised by same sex
   couples. However, recent studies suggest that children raised by same
   sex couples, are likely to grow up to be well adjusted and happy
   individuals. The opposition to LGBT rights, can be extremely
   detrimental to individuals and to society as a whole.
   For instance, same sex couples that are not able to wed, are more
   likely to suffer from sexually transmitted diseases, depression and
   suicidal tendencies.  In contrast, same sex couples that are able to
   wed, enjoy better over all health and well being and are able to
   contribute to society in a productive manner.
   The debate about same sex marriage rights, has greatly effected the
   political and social climate in this country. In fact, members of the
   LGBT community have become extremely active in political forums.  Many
   politicians have declined to offer opinions on allowing or prohibiting
   gay marriage or adoption. In fact, politicians often fail to take a
   stance on the subject because of the attached controversy.
   However, states like Florida have explicitly denied gay adoption
   rights, in part because same sex couples are legally forbidden from
   marrying in the state. Again, studies suggest that children raised by
   same sex couples, become productive members of society and suffer no
   ill effects from being raised by same sex couples. In America, around
   sixty percent of citizens are supportive of some type of legal
   recognition of the relationship between same sex couples.
   In general however, many people believe that marriage should continue
   to be defined as a unique union of one man and one woman. However, most
   people believe that couples in domestic partnerships or civil unions,
   should be entitled to the same rights and responsibilities generally
   conferred on marriages.  In fact, trends suggest much greater support
   for the rights of the LGBT community, including the ability to
   criminally prosecute individuals that commit hate crimes against people
   based on sexual orientation or gender association. However,
   transsexuals and transgender individuals are currently offered the
   least protection from discrimination and hate crimes. In fact, most
   states offer no legal recourse for such actions.
   Yet, many transsexuals and transgender individuals have been able to
   get married, due to loopholes in laws that do not state at which point
   an individual must be of a certain gender. Lawmakers have begun to
   address issue of discrimination, hate crimes and rights for the LGBT
   community, including the right to have their relationship legally
   recognized.
   Some states have recently legalized same sex weddings in addition to
   passing hate crime and discrimination legislation that includes
   criminal penalties for those that break the law. However, other states
   have passed legislation that explicitly bans legal recognition for any
   same sex relationships in addition to preventing the passage of
   legislation that prohibits discrimination or hate crimes against the
   LGBT community.
   In addition, other countries have begun to address issues that effect
   the LGBT community. In fact, same sex couples have recently been
   allowed to be legally married in  Mexico. In addition, transgender
   individuals are allowed to marry in Singapore as long as the couple is
   opposite sex. In contrast, some countries have passed laws that
   explicitly forbid same sex marriage.  It appears that the Federal
   government in this country will be forced to address all of these
   issues on a national level.
   In fact, they will either have to prohibit or allow legal same sex
   marriages, in order to avoid the continued nationwide conflict on the
   subject. Currently, states have the power to decide the issues for
   themselves. While some states enacted the Defense of Marriage Act,
   others have not explicitly forbidden the legal recognition of same sex
   marriage, but they have also not allowed it as of yet. Politics has a
   lot to do with each state's stance on same sex marriage. Generally,
   lawmakers in conservative states, push for the enactment of DOMA, as
   well as further laws that prohibit the legal recognition of same sex
   marriage.
   In addition, many churches have taken an active stance against LGBT
   rights including the right to recognize any relationship between same
   sex couples. While Liberal states often enact laws that protect the
   rights of the LGBT community, including the right to marry. In
   addition, there are currently many reform movements that seek to enact
   progressive, but steady change in the LGBT movement. For example, the
   Jewish Reform movement has recognized the rights of the LGBT community,
   including the right to marry. Reform movements have been effective in
   bringing attention to the many issues that effect the LGBT community.

Comments

   comments

   No related posts.
   Share

Related Articles

   Scroll Back To Top
     * Are You Out Of the Loop About the Legality of Marriage?
     * The History of Same Sex Marriage
     * The Must Read Guide to Same Sex Marriage

Important Links

     * Laws
     * Lawyers
     * Find Laws
     * Legal Forms
     * State Laws
     * Bills

Categories

     * Battered Person Syndrome
     * Charged with Domestic Violence
     * Civil Unions
     * Cohabitation
     * Cohabitation Agreements
     * Common Law Marriage
     * Domestic Abuse Awareness
     * Domestic Abuse Causes
     * Domestic Abuse Hotline
     * Domestic Abuse Studies
     * Domestic Partnership
     * Domestic Violence
     * Domestic Violence Against Men
     * Domestic Violence Attorneys
     * Domestic Violence Awareness Project
     * Domestic Violence Laws
     * Domestic Violence Statistics
     * Effects of Domestic Violence
     * Gay Marriage
     * Legality
     * Marriage
     * Marriage Ceremony
     * Marriage Counseling
     * Marriage License
     * Opposition to Prenuptial Agreements
     * Other Considerations
     * Other Marriage Related Agreements
     * Politics
     * Prenuptial Agreement
     * Prenuptial Agreement Forms
     * Putative Marriage
     * Religious Importance of Marriage
     * Restraining Orders
     * Same Sex Marriage
     * Signs of Domestic Violence
     * Stages of Battered Women's Syndrome
     * State Laws
     * Types of Spousal Abuse

Latest Posts

       Gay Marriage: Governor Christ Christie Veto Challenged by New
   Jersey Democrats

Gay Marriage: Governor Christ Christie Veto Challenged by New Jersey
Democrats

   Read Full Article

Marriage Certificate Georgia

   Read Full Article

Annulment of Marriage in California

   Read Full Article
     * Alabama Forms
     * Alaska Forms
     * Arizona Forms
     * Arkansas Forms
     * California Forms
     * Colorado Forms
     * Connecticut Forms
     * District Of Columbia Forms
     * Delaware Forms
     * Florida Forms
     * Georgia Forms
     * Idaho Forms
     * Hawaii Forms
     * Illinois Forms
     * Indiana Forms
     * Iowa Forms
     * Kansas Forms
     * Kentucky Forms
     * Louisiana Forms
     * Maine Forms
     * Maryland Forms
     * Massachusetts Forms
     * Michigan Forms
     * Minnesota Forms
     * Mississippi Forms
     * Missouri Forms
     * Montana Forms
     * Nebraska Forms
     * Nevada Forms
     * New Hampshire Forms
     * New Jersey Forms
     * New Mexico Forms
     * New York Forms
     * North Carolina Forms
     * North Dakota Forms
     * Ohio Forms
     * Oklahoma Forms
     * Oregon Forms
     * Pennsylvania Forms
     * Rhode Island Forms
     * South Carolina Forms
     * South Dakota Forms
     * Tennessee Forms
     * Texas Forms
     * Utah Forms
     * Vermont Forms
     * Virginia Forms
     * Washington Forms
     * West Virginia Forms
     * Wisconsin Forms
     * Wyoming Forms

     * Alabama Codes & Statutes
     * Alaska Codes & Statutes
     * Arizona Codes & Statutes
     * Arkansas Codes & Statutes
     * California Codes & Statutes
     * Connecticut Codes & Statutes
     * Delaware Codes & Statutes
     * District of Columbia Codes & Statutes
     * Florida Codes & Statutes
     * Georgia Codes & Statutes
     * Hawaii Codes & Statutes
     * Idaho Codes & Statutes
     * Illinois Codes & Statutes
     * Indiana Codes & Statutes
     * Iowa Codes & Statutes
     * Kansas Codes & Statutes
     * Kentucky Codes & Statutes
     * Louisiana Codes & Statutes
     * Maine Codes & Statutes
     * Maryland Codes & Statutes
     * Massachusetts Codes & Statutes
     * Michigan Codes & Statutes
     * Minnesota Codes & Statutes
     * Mississippi Codes & Statutes
     * Missouri Codes & Statutes
     * Montana Codes & Statutes
     * Nebraska Codes & Statutes
     * Nevada Codes & Statutes
     * New Hampshire Codes & Statutes
     * New Jersey Codes & Statutes
     * New Mexico Codes & Statutes
     * New York Codes & Statutes
     * North Carolina Codes & Statutes
     * North Dakota Codes & Statutes
     * Ohio Codes & Statutes
     * Oklahoma Codes & Statutes
     * Oregon Codes & Statutes
     * Pennsylvania Codes & Statutes
     * Rhode Island Codes & Statutes
     * South Carolina Codes & Statutes
     * South Dakota Codes & Statutes
     * Tennessee Codes & Statutes
     * Texas Codes & Statutes
     * Utah Codes & Statutes
     * Vermont Codes & Statutes

     Virginia Codes & Statutes

     Washington Codes & Statutes

     West Virginia Codes & Statutes

     Wisconsin Codes & Statutes

     Wyoming Codes & Statutes

   IFRAME: 5b0c8f44f3

     * Contact Us
     * Lawyer Marketing
     * Advertise on Laws.com
     * About Us
     * Terms of Use
     * Privacy Policy
     * Advertising Policy

   Disclaimer
   There is no confidential attorney-client relationship formed by using
   Laws.com website and information provided on this site is not legal
   advice. For legal advice, please contact your attorney. Attorneys
   listed on this website are not referred or endorsed by this website. By
   using Laws.com you agree to Laws.com Terms Of Use.
   Copyright © 2017 Laws.com | All rights reserved

Loading..

   Close Window

Loading, Please Wait!

   This may take a second or two.

   Clicky

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-31.txt>

   [tr?id=337855236975329&ev=PageView&noscript=1]

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TB87QF

   Your independent source for Harvard news since 1898
   Harvard Magazine

   Log-In | Register

Search form

   Search ____________________
   [glass.png]-Submit
     * Articles
       pointer close
          + News
            more News

     Image from Google Maps

What’s Up Comes Down, and Vice Versa
            Massachusetts transportation officials plan to rebuild
            Turnpike at grade—opening Harvard parcels.
            1.14.19

     Are data from massive open online courses a crystal ball into the
     future of online education?
     Data from Science Magazine/Chart by Lydia S.C. Rosenberg

Can MOOCs Predict the Future of Online Education?
            Harvard and MIT experiences suggest a more constrained vision
            for massive free courses.
            1.10.19
            Statue of John Harvard

     Statue of John Harvard
     Photograph by Ericodeg/Flickr.com

College Admits 13.4 Percent of Early-Action Applicants
            More women in science, and a steady increase in Asian-American
            admits
            12.13.18
          + Research
            more Research

     Are data from massive open online courses a crystal ball into the
     future of online education?
     Data from Science Magazine/Chart by Lydia S.C. Rosenberg

Can MOOCs Predict the Future of Online Education?
            Harvard and MIT experiences suggest a more constrained vision
            for massive free courses.
            1.10.19

     Lapis lazuli pigment entrapped within the dental calculus on the
     lower jaw of a medieval woman.
     Photograph by Christina Warinner

Manuscripts Illuminated…by Women
            Tracing lapis lazuli provides evidence that women were
            directly involved in creating medieval illuminated
            manuscripts.
            1.9.19

     A formal wartime portrait
     Photograph from the Mathew Brady Collection/Library of Congres

Ulysses S. Grant
            Brief history of the image of a hero: 1822-1885
            January-February 2019
          + Students
            more Students

     Are data from massive open online courses a crystal ball into the
     future of online education?
     Data from Science Magazine/Chart by Lydia S.C. Rosenberg

Can MOOCs Predict the Future of Online Education?
            Harvard and MIT experiences suggest a more constrained vision
            for massive free courses.
            1.10.19

     Illustration by Michael Parkin/Folio Art

Who Belongs at Harvard?
            The Undergraduate considers the composition of Harvard
            College.
            January-February 2019

     Photograph by River North Photography/iStock

Harvard-Yale at IHOP
            “None of my friends are going to The Game, which is evidenced
            by the fact that we’re at IHOP deliberating whether our crêpes
            should come with lingonberry, and not on a shuttle into
            Boston.”
            11.21.18
          + Alumni
            more Alumni

     After the harvest, Kelby Russell, who makes cold-climate white
     wines, stands in a vineyard overlooking New York’s Seneca Lake.
     Photograph by Robyn Wishna

Grace Notes
            Why the vineyards of New York called Kelby Russell home
            January-February 2019

     Liz Glynn
     Photograph by Evelena Ruether/Liz Glynn Studio

Artistic Capital
            In Liz Glynn’s massive installations, big questions about the
            meaning of value
            January-February 2019

     Bess Wohl
     Photograph by Astrid Stawiarz/Getty Images

“Here and Then Gone”
            Bess Wohl writes plays from an actor’s perspective.
            January-February 2019
          + Harvard Squared
            more Harvard Squared

     Public domain

The Perfect Storm
            Why Resolutions Work Best in Winter
            January-February 2019

     A miniature version of a New England high-post bed (ca. 1750-1765),
     with historically accurate bed furnishings by Natalie Larson
     Object on loan courtesy of Natalie and Bruce Larson
     Photograph courtesy of the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art

Bedding Down in Early America
            A Wadsworth Atheneum and Museum exhibit reveals how we once
            slept.
            January-February 2019

     A serene and snowy moment in historic Portland
     Photograph courtesy of Corey Templeton Photography

“Beyond Lobsters and Lighthouses”
            Enjoying Portland, Maine, in the “off-season”
            January-February 2019
          + Opinion
            more Opinion

     A formal wartime portrait
     Photograph from the Mathew Brady Collection/Library of Congres

Ulysses S. Grant
            Brief history of the image of a hero: 1822-1885
            January-February 2019

What Legacy?
            Affirmative action, donor and staff preferences, and other
            Harvard College admissions challenges
            January-February 2019

     Illustration by Michael Parkin/Folio Art

Who Belongs at Harvard?
            The Undergraduate considers the composition of Harvard
            College.
            January-February 2019
          + Arts
            more Arts

     Lapis lazuli pigment entrapped within the dental calculus on the
     lower jaw of a medieval woman.
     Photograph by Christina Warinner

Manuscripts Illuminated…by Women
            Tracing lapis lazuli provides evidence that women were
            directly involved in creating medieval illuminated
            manuscripts.
            1.9.19

     Photograph from the OxBlue Construction Cameras

Arts Arrive in Allston
            Alongside a huge applied-sciences center, a toehold for
            art-making
            January-February 2019

     Philip J. Deloria
     Photograph by Jim Harrison

Native Modern
            Philip Deloria studies American Indians and the contradictions
            that made America.
            January-February 2019
          + Sports
            more Sports

     Tubing at Nashoba Valley Ski Area
     Photograph courtesy of Nashoba Valley Ski Area

Sliding Down the Slopes
            Best snow-tubing spots around Greater Boston
            January-February 2019

     Cook’s tour: Harvard wideout Jack Cook leaves Yale’s Deonte Henson
     in the dust on a third-quarter, 15-yard touchdown. The score gave
     the Crimson a 28-24 lead, which it would not surrender.
     Photograph by Tim O’Meara/The Harvard Crimson

Finishing with a Flourish
            A resilient, crowd-pleasing football season, with talented
            sophomores surfacing
            January-February 2019

     Cook’s tour: Harvard wideout Jack Cook leaves Yale’s Deonte Henson
     in the dust on a third-quarter, 15-yard touchdown. The score gave
     the Crimson a 28-24 lead, which it would not surrender.
     Photograph by Tim O’Meara/The Harvard Crimson

Football 2018: Harvard 45, Yale 27
            On the fiftieth anniversary of That Game, Harvard really does
            beat Yale.
            11.16.18
          + Harvardiana
            more Harvardiana

     Illustration by Mark Steele

Yesterday’s News
            When the Law School made thin ice…and other headlines from
            Harvard’s history
            January-February 2019

     Photograph by Harvard Magazine/JC

Sculpting Hallowed Ground
            Re-landscaping Massachusetts Hall, making the entrance to
            Harvard Yard more welcoming
            January-February 2019

     Quarterback Frank Champi ’70 is carried off the field as the Yale
     game ends.
     Photograph by Gary Mottola

From the Archives: 1968, When “Harvard Beats Yale”
            The immediate post-Game coverage, and an update on that famous
            headline
            11.15.18
          + Puzzles

A Harvard Magazine Tradition Ends
            1.12.17

Cryptic Puzzle: “Regatta”
            8.17.16

Cryptic Puzzle: “Soccer Club”
            6.14.16

Cryptic Puzzle: “Gift”
            4.18.16

Cryptic Puzzle: “Diversifying”
            2.17.16

Cryptic Puzzle: “Coach”
            12.14.15
            puzzles

Harvard Puzzles by John de Cuevas
            more Puzzles
     * Current Issue
       pointer close
       Read the current issue
       January-February 2019

     Philip J. Deloria
     Photograph by Jim Harrison

Native Modern
       Philip J. Deloria studies American Indians and the contradictions
       that made America.
     * Archives
       pointer close
       From the archives

     Illustration by Davide Bonazzi

The Watchers
       Assaults on privacy and security in America threaten democracy
       itself.
       January-February 2017
       November-December 2018
       September-October 2018
       July-August 2018
       more Back Issues
     * Class Notes
       pointer close
       To access Class Notes or Obituaries, please log in using your
       Harvard Magazine account and verify your alumni status.
       Don't have a Harvard Magazine account? Register Here
       Or submit a class note or obituary
     * Classifieds
       pointer close
       vacation rentals
       Vacation Rentals & Travel
       real estate
       Real Estate
       personals
       Personals
       products and services
       Products & Services
       Place an Ad

Special Sections
          + Summer Education & Enrichment
          + Spotlight on France
         ______________________________________________________________

          + FAQ
          + Tips & Advice
          + Pricing & Sizes
     * Donate
       pointer close

Show your Support for
Harvard Magazine
       Your donation today ensures that Harvard Magazine can continue to
       provide high-quality content and remain an editorially independent
       source of news about the Harvard community.
       Why Support Harvard Magazine? | Financial Update | Donor Services
       Donate

   Harvard Magazine
   (Submit) toggle menu
     * Latest News
     * Current Issue
     * Back Issues
     * Harvard Squared
     * Class Notes
     * Classifieds
     * Donate

Search form

   Search ____________________
   [glass.png]-Submit

   Your independent source for Harvard news since 1898
   [ADTECH;loc=300;key=key1+key2+key3+Research]
   [ADTECH;loc=300;key=key1+key2+key3+key4]

   Features

How Same-Sex Marriage Came to Be

   On activism, litigation, and social change in America

   by Michael J. Klarman

   March-April 2013
   [share_Print.png] [share_PDF.png]

   Fifty years ago, every state criminalized homosexual sex, and even the
   American Civil Liberties Union did not object. The federal government
   would not hire people who were openly gay or permit them to serve in
   the military. Police routinely raided gay bars. Only a handful of
   gay-rights organizations existed, and their membership was sparse. Most
   Americans would have considered the idea of same-sex marriage
   facetious.

   Today, opinion polls consistently show a majority of Americans
   endorsing such marriages; among those aged 18 to 29, support is as high
   as 70 percent. President Barack Obama has embraced marriage equality.
   Last November, for the first time, a majority of voters in a state—in
   fact, in three states—approved same-sex marriage, and in a fourth, they
   rejected a proposed state constitutional amendment to forbid it.

   How did support for gay marriage grow so quickly—to the point where the
   Supreme Court may deem it a constitutional right in 2013?

The Pre-Marriage Era

   In the early 1970s, amid a burst of gay activism unleashed by the
   Stonewall riots in Greenwich Village, several same-sex couples filed
   lawsuits demanding marriage licenses. Courts did not take their
   arguments very seriously. A trial judge in Kentucky instructed one
   lesbian plaintiff that she would not be permitted into the courtroom
   unless she exchanged her pantsuit for a dress. Minnesota Supreme Court
   justices would not dignify the gay-marriage claim by asking even a
   single question at oral argument.

   Marriage equality was not then a priority of gay activists. Rather,
   they focused on decriminalizing consensual sex between same-sex
   partners, securing legislation forbidding discrimination based on
   sexual orientation in public accommodations and employment, and
   electing the nation’s first openly gay public officials. Indeed, most
   gays and lesbians at the time were deeply ambivalent about marriage.
   Lesbian feminists tended to regard the institution as oppressive, given
   the traditional rules that defined it, such as coverture and immunity
   from rape. Most sex radicals objected to traditional marriage’s
   insistence on monogamy; for them, gay liberation meant sexual
   liberation.

   Only in the late 1980s did activists begin to pursue legal recognition
   of their relationships—and even gay marriage. The AIDS epidemic had
   highlighted the vulnerability of gay and lesbian partnerships: nearly
   50,000 people had died of AIDS, two-thirds of them gay men; the median
   age of the deceased was 36. An entire generation of young gay men was
   forced to contemplate legal issues surrounding their relationships:
   hospital visitation, surrogate medical decisionmaking, and property
   inheritance. In addition, the many gay and lesbian baby boomers who
   were becoming parents sought legal recognition of their families.

   Still, as late as 1990, roughly 75 percent of Americans deemed
   homosexual sex immoral, only 29 percent supported gay adoptions, and
   only 10 percent to 20 percent backed same-sex marriage. Not a single
   jurisdiction in the world had yet embraced marriage equality.

Litigation and Backlash

   In 1991, three gay couples in Hawaii challenged the constitutionality
   of laws limiting marriage to a man and woman. No national gay-rights
   organization would support litigation considered hopeless—but in 1993,
   the state supreme court unexpectedly ruled that excluding same-sex
   couples from marriage was presumptively unconstitutional. The case was
   remanded for a trial, at which the government had the opportunity to
   show a compelling justification for banning gay marriage. In 1996, a
   trial judge ruled that same-sex couples were entitled to marry. But
   even in a relatively gay-friendly state, marriage equality was then a
   radical concept: in 1998, Hawaiian voters rejected it, 69 percent to 31
   percent. (A similar vote in Alaska that year produced a nearly
   identical outcome.)

   For the Republican Party in the 1990s, gay marriage was a dream issue
   that mobilized its religious-conservative base and put it on the same
   side as most swing voters. Objecting that “some radical judges in
   Hawaii may get to dictate the moral code for the entire nation,”
   Republicans in 1996 introduced bills in most state legislatures to deny
   recognition to gay marriages lawfully performed elsewhere. (Such
   marriages were nonexistent at the time.) One poll showed that 68
   percent of Americans opposed gay marriage. By 2001, 35 states had
   enacted statutes or constitutional provisions to “defend” traditional
   marriage—usually by overwhelming margins.

   Gay marriage also entered the national political arena in 1996. Just
   days before the Republican Party’s Iowa caucuses, antigay activists
   conducted a “marriage protection” rally at which presidential
   candidates denounced the “homosexual agenda,” which was said to be
   “destroying the integrity of the marriage-based family.” A few months
   later, the party’s nominee, Senator Robert Dole, co-sponsored the
   Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), which provided that no state was
   required to recognize another’s same-sex marriages and that the federal
   government would not recognize them for purposes of determining
   eligibility for federal benefits. Congress passed the bill by lopsided
   margins, and President Bill Clinton, eager to neutralize the issue,
   signed it.

   Vermont. The litigation victory in Hawaii inspired activists in Vermont
   to follow suit. In 1999, that state’s high court ruled that the
   traditional definition of marriage discriminated against same-sex
   couples. The court gave the legislature the option of amending the
   marriage law to include same-sex couples or of creating a new
   institution (which came to be called “civil unions”) that provided them
   with all of the benefits of marriage.

   At that time, no American state had enacted anything like civil unions.
   An enormous political controversy erupted; the legislature’s 2000
   session was dominated by the issue. After weeks of impassioned debate,
   lawmakers narrowly approved a civil-unions law, causing opponents to
   encourage voters to “keep your blood boiling” for the fall election and
   “Take Back Vermont.” Governor Howard Dean, a strong proponent of civil
   unions, faced his toughest reelection contest, and as many as three
   dozen state lawmakers may have lost their jobs over the issue (though
   the law survived Republican efforts to repeal it in the next
   legislative session).

   Developments in Vermont resonated nationally. All 10 candidates for the
   Republican presidential nomination in 2000 denounced civil unions. One
   of them, Gary Bauer, called the Vermont decision “in some ways worse
   than terrorism.”

   Massachusetts. Activists in Massachusetts, inspired by Vermont, filed
   their own lawsuit in 2001 demanding marriage equality. In 2003, the
   Supreme Judicial Court vindicated their claim in Goodridge v.
   Department of Public Health, while rejecting civil unions as
   “second-class citizenship.” Massachusetts thus became the first
   American state—and only the fifth jurisdiction in the world—to
   recognize same-sex marriage.

   The ruling sparked only a mild local backlash: the state legislature
   briefly but seriously debated overturning the decision by
   constitutional amendment, but popular support for such a measure
   quickly dissipated as same-sex couples began marrying. In the ensuing
   state elections, marriage-equality supporters actually gained seats in
   the legislature.

   Elsewhere, however, the Massachusetts ruling generated enormous
   political resistance. President George W. Bush immediately denounced
   it, and many Republican representatives called for a federal
   constitutional amendment to define marriage as the union of a man and
   woman. In February 2004, after Mayor Gavin Newsom of San Francisco had
   begun marrying same-sex couples in defiance of California law, Bush
   endorsed such an amendment, explaining that, “after more than two
   centuries of American jurisprudence, and millennia of human experience,
   a few judges and local authorities are presuming to change the most
   fundamental institution of civilization.”

   The issue proved an enormous election-year boon to Republicans.
   Americans at the time rejected gay marriage by two to one, and
   opponents generally were more passionate than supporters. At the same
   time, the issue proved vexing to Democrats. Approximately 70 percent of
   self-identified gays voted Democratic, yet some of the party’s
   traditional constituencies, such as working-class Catholics and African
   Americans, tended to strongly oppose gay marriage.

   That summer, Republican congressional leaders forced a vote on the
   proposed amendment, even though it had no realistic chance of passing.
   Its principal sponsor, Senator Wayne Allard of Colorado, warned, “There
   is a master plan out there from those who want to destroy the
   institution of marriage.” Although most congressional Democrats opposed
   the amendment, while supporting civil unions, most swing voters found
   the Republicans’ position more to their liking.

   [ADTECH;loc=300;key=News+Graduate%20Schools+Social%20Sciences+Research+
   +]

   Republicans also placed referenda to preserve the traditional
   definition of marriage on the ballot in 13 states in 2004, hoping to
   make gay marriage more salient in the minds of voters and inspire
   religious conservatives to come to the polls. All the measures passed
   easily, by margins of as much as 86 percent to 14 percent (in
   Mississippi). One newspaper aptly described a “resounding,
   coast-to-coast rejection of gay marriage.” Most of the amendments
   forbade civil unions as well.

    The issue proved decisive in some 2004 political contests. In
   Kentucky, incumbent Senator Jim Bunning, a Republican, began attacking
   gay marriage to rescue his floundering campaign. State party leaders
   called his opponent, a 44-year-old bachelor who opposed the federal
   marriage amendment, “limp-wristed” and a “switch hitter,” and reporters
   began asking him if he was gay. On Election Day, a state ballot measure
   barring gay marriage passed by three to one, while Bunning squeaked
   through with just 50.7 percent of the vote. Analysts attributed his
   victory to a large turnout of rural conservatives mobilized to vote
   against gay marriage.

   In South Dakota, Republican John Thune, an evangelical Christian,
   challenged Senate minority leader Tom Daschle and made opposition to
   gay marriage a centerpiece of his campaign. Thune pressed Daschle to
   explain his opposition to the federal marriage amendment and warned
   that “the institution of marriage is under attack from extremist
   groups. They have done it in Massachusetts and they can do it here.” In
   November, he defeated Daschle by 51 percent to 49 percent—the first
   defeat of a Senate party leader in more than 50 years. Across the
   border in North Dakota, a state marriage amendment passed by 73 percent
   to 27 percent.

   In the 2004 presidential election contest, the incumbent would not have
   won a second term had he not received Ohio’s electoral votes. President
   Bush regularly called for passage of the federal marriage amendment
   during the campaign and reminded voters that his opponent, John Kerry,
   hailed from Massachusetts, whose judges had decreed gay marriage a
   constitutional right. Bush’s margin of victory in Ohio was about 2
   percent, while the gay-marriage ban passed by 24 percentage points. If
   the marriage amendment mobilized enough conservatives to turn out or
   induced enough swing voters to support Bush, it may have determined the
   outcome of the presidential election. Among frequent churchgoers—the
   group most likely to oppose gay marriage—the increase in Bush’s share
   of the popular vote in Ohio from 2000 was 17 percentage points,
   compared to just 1 percentage point nationally.

   During the next two years, 10 more states passed constitutional
   amendments barring same-sex marriage. In 2006-07, high courts in
   Maryland, New Jersey, New York, and Washington—possibly influenced by
   the political backlash ignited by the Massachusetts ruling—also
   rejected gay marriage.

Growing Support

   Despite the fierce political backlash ignited by gay-marriage rulings
   in the 1990s and 2000s, public backing for gay rights continued to
   grow, bolstered by sociological, demographic, and cultural factors.
   Perhaps the most important was that the proportion of Americans who
   reported knowing someone gay increased from 25 percent in 1985 to 74
   percent in 2000. Knowing gay people strongly predicts support for gay
   rights; a 2004 study found that 65 percent of those who reported
   knowing someone gay favored gay marriage or civil unions, versus just
   35 percent of those who reported not knowing any gays.

   Support for allowing gays and lesbians to serve openly in the military
   increased from 56 percent in 1992 to 81 percent in 2004. Backing for
   laws barring discrimination based on sexual orientation in public
   accommodations rose from 48 percent in 1988 to 75 percent in 2004.
   Support for granting same-sex couples the legal rights and benefits of
   marriage without the title increased from 23 percent in 1989 to 56
   percent in 2004.

   Shifts in opinion translated into policy changes. The number of Fortune
   500 companies offering healthcare benefits for same-sex partners rose
   from zero in 1990 to 263 in 2006. The number of states providing health
   benefits to the same-sex partners of public employees rose from zero in
   1993 to 15 in 2008. Those states with antidiscrimination laws covering
   sexual orientation increased from one in 1988 to 20 in 2008.

   Dramatic changes were also afoot in the popular culture. In 1990, only
   one network television show had a regularly appearing gay character,
   and a majority of Americans reported that they would not permit their
   child to watch a show with gay characters. By mid decade, however, the
   most popular situation comedies, such as Friends and Mad About You,
   were dealing with gay marriage, and in 1997, Ellen DeGeneres famously
   came out in a special one-hour episode of her popular show, Ellen.
   Forty-six million viewers were watching, and Time put her on its cover.
   Many Americans feel as if they know their favorite television
   characters, so such small-screen changes also tended to foster
   acceptance of homosexuality.

   As society became more gay-friendly, millions of gays and lesbians
   chose to come out of the closet. And support for gay marriage gradually
   increased as well, despite the political backlash against court rulings
   in its favor. Between the late 1980s and the late 1990s, support grew
   from roughly 10 or 20 percent, to 30 or 35 percent. In 2004, the year
   after the Massachusetts ruling, one study showed that opponents of gay
   marriage outnumbered supporters by 29 percentage points; by 2008, that
   gap had narrowed to 12 percentage points.

   Support for gay marriage grew for a second, related reason: young
   people had come to overwhelmingly support it. They are far more likely
   to know someone who is openly gay and have grown up in an environment
   that is much more tolerant of homosexuality than that of their parents.
   One scholarly study found an extraordinary gap of 44 percentage points
   between the oldest and youngest survey respondents in their attitudes
   toward gay marriage.

   Moreover, despite the short-term political backlash it sparked, gay
   marriage litigation has probably advanced the cause of marriage
   equality over the longer term. The litigation has undoubtedly raised
   the salience of gay marriage, making it an issue subject to much
   broader discussion and action—an initial prerequisite for social
   change.

   The gay-marriage rulings have also affected individuals’ actions and
   preferences. Litigation victories inspired gay activists to file
   lawsuits in additional states. The rulings also led more gay couples to
   want marriage—an institution about which they previously had been
   ambivalent. People often teach themselves not to want something they
   know they cannot have; the court decisions made gay marriage seem more
   attainable.

   Finally, the gay-marriage rulings created thousands of same-sex married
   couples, who quickly became the public face of the issue. In turn,
   friends, neighbors, and co-workers of these couples began to think
   differently about marriage equality. The sky did not fall.

Legislated Marriage Equality

   As support for gay marriage grew, high courts in California and
   Connecticut ruled in its favor in 2008. But the California decision was
   quickly overturned by Proposition 8, which passed by a margin of about
   5 percentage points. (Support for gay marriage in California had grown
   by about 1 percentage point a year since 2000, but its backers remained
   just shy of a majority.)

   Six months after this bitter defeat, gay marriage took an enormous leap
   forward. Within a few weeks in the spring of 2009, the Iowa Supreme
   Court and three legislatures in New England embraced marriage equality.
   The Iowa ruling appeared especially significant: it was unanimous,
   unlike other state court rulings in favor of marriage equality; and it
   came from the nation’s heartland, not one of its politically
   left-of-center coasts. Just days later, Vermont became the first state
   to enact gay marriage legislatively, and New Hampshire and Maine
   quickly followed. It seemed possible that New York and New Jersey would
   do so by year’s end.

   But that fall, Maine voters vetoed the gay-marriage law by 52.8 percent
   to 47.2 percent. That result seemed to influence some legislators in
   New York and New Jersey, where gay-marriage bills were defeated after
   the election. And in Iowa, polls showed a substantial majority opposed
   to their high court’s ruling, but Democrats controlling the state
   legislature refused to permit a referendum on a state marriage
   amendment. In the 2010 Republican gubernatorial primary, all five
   candidates denounced gay marriage; four supported a state
   constitutional amendment to ban it; and the most extreme candidate, Bob
   Vander Plaats, promised an executive order to block implementation of
   the court’s ruling. Vander Plaats came in second in the primary,
   winning 40 percent of the vote, then turned his attention to removing
   the judges responsible for the ruling, three of whom were up for
   retention elections that fall. In 50 years, not a single Iowa justice
   had ever been defeated for retention, but Vander Plaats and his allies
   made the election into a referendum on gay marriage, and the justices
   lost.

   Elsewhere, gay marriage leapt forward. In 2011, the New York
   legislature enacted it. Early in 2012, legislatures in Washington,
   Maryland, and New Jersey passed gay-marriage bills, though Governor
   Chris Christie vetoed the last of these. Last November 6, for the first
   time, American voters endorsed gay marriage, in three states: voters in
   Washington and Maryland ratified marriage-equality bills; Mainers
   approved a gay-marriage initiative (reversing the 2009 outcome). That
   same day, Minnesotans rejected a proposed constitutional amendment to
   bar gay marriage—becoming only the second state in which voters had
   done so.

To the Supreme Court

   This past December, the Supreme Court agreed to review cases
   challenging the constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act and
   California’s Proposition 8.

   Assuming the justices address the substantive merits of either
   challenge (which is uncertain, given procedural issues), they are more
   likely to invalidate DOMA. Several lower courts have already done so,
   at least partly on federalism grounds. Historically, Congress has
   deferred to state definitions of marriage; conservative justices who
   care about preserving traditional spheres of state autonomy may combine
   with liberal justices who probably support marriage equality to
   invalidate the 1996 law. Indeed, a contrary outcome would be
   surprising. In 1996, some sponsors of DOMA defended it in blatantly
   homophobic terms, and Supreme Court precedent forbids statutes to be
   rooted in prejudice. Further, justices are not indifferent to public
   sentiment, and one recent poll shows that Americans favor repeal by 51
   percent to 34 percent.

   Predicting how the Court will rule on Proposition 8 is harder. The
   justices are likely to divide five to four, as they do today on most
   important constitutional issues, such as abortion, affirmative action,
   and campaign-finance reform. As usual, Justice Anthony Kennedy is
   likely to determine the outcome. His vote may turn on how he balances
   two seemingly opposing proclivities. On one hand, his rulings often
   convert dominant national norms into constitutional mandates to
   suppress outlier state practices. (His decisions barring the death
   penalty for minors and the mentally disabled fit this description.)
   This propensity would counsel restraint on the Court’s part with regard
   to gay marriage, given that only nine states and the District of
   Columbia currently permit it.

   On the other hand, Kennedy wrote the Court’s only two decisions
   supporting gay rights, one of which explicitly embraces the notion of a
   living Constitution whose meaning evolves to reflect changing social
   mores. Moreover, his opinions frequently treat international norms as
   relevant to American constitutional interpretation, and marriage
   equality is rapidly gaining momentum in much of the world. Finally,
   Kennedy seems especially attuned to his legacy. How tempting might it
   be for a justice to write the opinion that within a decade or two will
   likely be regarded as the Brown v. Board of Education of the gay-rights
   movement?

   Whether or not the Court deems gay marriage a constitutional right this
   year, the future seems clear. Of late, support for marriage equality
   has been growing two or three percentage points annually. A study by
   statistician Nate Silver finds startling results: in 2013, a majority
   of people in a majority of states support gay marriage. By 2024, he
   projects, even the last holdout, Mississippi, will have a majority in
   favor.

   Even many conservatives have begun to acknowledge the inevitability of
   marriage equality. In March 2011, the president of the Southern Baptist
   Theological Seminary observed that “it is clear that something like
   same-sex marriage…is going to become normalized, legalized, and
   recognized in the culture” and that “it’s time for Christians to start
   thinking about how we’re going to deal with that.”

   That a particular social reform may be inevitable does not mean that
   opponents will cease fighting it. Although conceding, “You can’t fight
   the federal government and win,” many whites in the Deep South
   continued to massively resist Brown and school desegregation, insisting
   that “We’ll never accept it voluntarily” and “They’ll have to force it
   on us.”

   People who believe that gay marriage contravenes God’s will are not
   likely to stop opposing it simply because their prospects of success
   are diminishing. Moreover, religious conservatives who condemn gay
   marriage will continue to influence Republican politicians who need
   their support to win primary elections. Thus, an intense struggle over
   marriage equality is likely to continue for several more years, even
   though the ultimate outcome is no longer seriously in doubt. 

   Kirkland & Ellis professor of law Michael J. Klarman is the author of
   the recently published From the Closet to the Altar: Courts, Backlash,
   and the Struggle for Same-Sex Marriage.
   [ADTECH;loc=300;key=key1+key2+key3+key4]

   View the discussion thread.

   [slide-over_925long_v3b.png]

On Readers’ Radar

    1. Artificial Intelligence and Ethics
    2. Can MOOCs Predict the Future of Online Education?
    3. What’s Up Comes Down, and Vice Versa
    4. Who Built the Pyramids?
    5. The Fringe Benefits of Failure, and the Importance of Imagination

   [ADTECH;loc=300;key=News+Graduate%20Schools+Social%20Sciences+Research+
   +]

You Might Also Like:

     Lapis lazuli pigment entrapped within the dental calculus on the
     lower jaw of a medieval woman.

     Photograph by Christina Warinner

   Manuscripts Illuminated…by Women

     Illustration by John Holcroft

   The positive impact of entrepreneurial immigrants

     Illustration by Robert Neubecker

   How physical appearance influences authority

You Might Also Like:

     Lapis lazuli pigment entrapped within the dental calculus on the
     lower jaw of a medieval woman.

     Photograph by Christina Warinner

   Manuscripts Illuminated…by Women

     Illustration by John Holcroft

   The positive impact of entrepreneurial immigrants

     Illustration by Robert Neubecker

   How physical appearance influences authority
   [ADTECH;loc=300;key=key1+key2+key3+key4]
     * Contact/About
     * Customer Service
     * Donor Services
     * E-Newsletters
     * Advertise
     * My Account
     * FAQ

   Harvard Magazine

   All Content ©1996-2019 Harvard Magazine Inc.
   All right reserved
   Privacy Policy
   Report Copyright Infringement
   facebook twitter linkedin youtube instagram

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-33.txt>

                             [slow_an_cross.gif]


                             [display.gif]
     __________________________________________________________________

     [cocorner2.jpg]

                                    Home

                            Conditional Marriage

                             California Marriage
                           California Gay Marriage

                         Florida Marriage Amendment

                           Bible and Homosexuality

                       Arguments Against Gay Marriage

                     Arguments Against Same Sex Marriage
                        Sample Letters to the Editor

                        Church Bulletin Announcements

                           Church Bulletin Inserts

                            Church Newspaper Ads

                                Bumpersticker

                                 Contact Us

                           Bible Sermons Marriage

                       John McCain Marriage Amendment
                     He is against Traditional Marriage

                                Gay Marriage
                               More Resources

                            Against Gay Marriage

                         Virginia Marriage Amendment

                        Wisconsin Marriage Amendment

                        Tennessee Marriage Amendment

                      Massachusetts Marriage Amendment

                      South Carolina Marriage Amendment

                           Gay Marriage Amendment
                                   Arizona

                        Marriage Protection Amendment
                           Why we lost in Arizona

                          Idaho Marriage Amendment

                     Article on Gay and Lesbian Marriage

                         Federal Marriage Amendment

                        Biblical Traditional Marriage
                           Pastors Advisory Board

                            God's 1st Commandment

                            Traditional Marriage

                                Bible Sermons

                     The Bible and No Same Sex Marriage

                            Signs of Free Speech

                            Judge Roy Moore Poem

                          Original Ten Commandments

                               Christian Signs


Anti Gay Marriage Arguments

   The following article is from NoGayMarriage.com. Many other articles on
   sodomite marriage are available at this same website.

Gay Marriage: Why Would It Affect Me?

Ten Arguments Against Same Sex Marriage

   (This is a synopsis of the new book by Dr. James Dobson, Marriage Under
   Fire.)

Argument #1. Same Sex Marriage Decays Families

   The implications for children in a world of decaying families are
   profound. A recent article in the Weekly Standard described how the
   advent of legally sanctioned gay unions in Scandinavian countries has
   already destroyed the institution of marriage, where half of today's
   children are born out of wedlock.

   It is predicted now, based on demographic trends in this country, that
   more than half of the babies born in the 1990s will spend at least part
   of their childhood in single-parent homes.

   Social scientists have been surprisingly consistent in warning against
   this fractured family. If it continues, almost every child will have
   several "moms" and "dads," perhaps six or eight "grandparents," and
   dozens of half-siblings. It will be a world where little boys and girls
   are shuffled from pillar to post in an ever-changing pattern of living
   arrangements-where huge numbers of them will be raised in foster-care
   homes or living on the street (as millions do in other countries all
   over the world today). Imagine an environment where nothing is stable
   and where people think primarily about themselves and their own
   self-preservation.

   The apostle Paul described a similar society in Romans 1, which
   addressed the epidemic of homosexuality that was rampant in the ancient
   world and especially in Rome at that time. He wrote, "They have become
   filled with every kind of wickedness, evil, greed and depravity. They
   are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit and malice. They are gossips,
   slanderers, God-haters, insolent, arrogant and boastful; they invent
   ways of doing evil; they disobey their parents; they are senseless,
   faithless, heartless, ruthless" (v. 29-31, NIV).

   It appears likely now that the demise of families will accelerate this
   type of decline dramatically, resulting in a chaotic culture that will
   be devastating to children.

Argument #2. Gay Marriage Will Lead to Polygamy

   The introduction of legalized gay marriages will lead inexorably to
   polygamy and other alternatives to one-man, one-woman unions.

   In Utah, polygamist Tom Green, who claims five wives, is citing
   Lawrence v. Texas as the legal authority for his appeal. This past
   January, a Salt Lake City civil rights attorney filed a federal lawsuit
   on behalf of another couple wanting to engage in legal polygamy. Their
   justification? Lawrence v. Texas.

   The ACLU of Utah has actually suggested that the state will "have to
   step up to prove that a polygamous relationship is detrimental to
   society"-as opposed to the polygamists having to prove that plural
   marriage is not harmful to the culture. Do you see how the game is
   played? Despite 5,000 years of history, the burden now rests on you and
   me to prove that polygamy is unhealthy. The ACLU went on to say that
   the nuclear family "may not be necessarily the best model." Indeed,
   Justice Antonin Scalia warned of this likelihood in his statement for
   the minority in the Lawrence case.10 It took less than six months for
   his prediction to become reality.

   Why will gay marriage set the table for polygamy? Because there is no
   place to stop once that Rubicon has been crossed. Historically, the
   definition of marriage has rested on a bedrock of tradition, legal
   precedent, theology and the overwhelming support of the people.

   After the introduction of marriage between homosexuals, however, it
   will be supported by nothing more substantial than the opinion of a
   single judge or by a black-robed panel of justices. After they have
   done their wretched work, the family will consist of little more than
   someone's interpretation of "rights."

   Given that unstable legal climate, it is certain that some
   self-possessed judge, somewhere, will soon rule that three men and one
   woman can marry. Or five and two, or four and four. Who will be able to
   deny them that right? The guarantee is implied, we will be told, by the
   Constitution. Those who disagree will continue to be seen as
   hate-mongers and bigots. (Indeed, those charges are already being
   leveled against those of us who espouse biblical values!) How about
   group marriage, or marriage between relatives, or marriage between
   adults and children? How about marriage between a man and his donkey?
   Anything allegedly linked to "civil rights" will be doable. The legal
   underpinnings for marriage will have been destroyed.

Argument #3. States Will No Longer Protect Marriage

   An even greater objective of the homosexual movement is to end the
   state's compelling interest in marital relationships altogether. After
   marriages have been redefined, divorces will be obtained instantly,
   will not involve a court, and will take on the status of a driver's
   license or a hunting permit. With the family out of the way, all rights
   and privileges of marriage will accrue to gay and lesbian partners
   without the legal entanglements and commitments heretofore associated
   with it.

Argument #4. Children Will Be Taught Perversion

   With the legalization of homosexual marriage, every public school in
   the nation will be required to teach that this perversion is the moral
   equivalent of traditional marriage between a man and a woman.
   Textbooks, even in conservative states, will have to depict man/man and
   woman/woman relationships, and stories written for children as young as
   elementary school, or even kindergarten, will have to give equal space
   to homosexuals.

Argument #5. Children Will Be Placed in Gay Households

   From that point forward, courts will not be able to favor a traditional
   family involving one man and one woman over a homosexual couple in
   matters of adoption. Children will be placed in homes with parents
   representing only one sex on an equal basis with those having a mom and
   a dad. The prospect of fatherless and motherless children will not be
   considered in the evaluation of eligibility. It will be the law.

Argument #6. Parents Will Be Reuiqred to Accept Homosexuality in Their
Children

   Foster-care parents will be required to undergo "sensitivity training"
   to rid themselves of bias in favor of traditional marriage, and will
   have to affirm homosexuality in children and teens.

Argument #7. Gay Partners Will Burden the Government Entitlement System

   How about the impact on Social Security if there are millions of new
   dependents that will be entitled to survivor benefits? It will amount
   to billions of dollars on an already overburdened system. And how about
   the cost to American businesses? Unproductive costs mean fewer jobs for
   those who need them. Are state and municipal governments to be required
   to raise taxes substantially to provide health insurance and other
   benefits to millions of new "spouses and other dependents"?

Argument #8. Gay Marriage Will Spread Quickly to Other Countries

   Marriage among homosexuals will spread throughout the world, just as
   pornography did after the Nixon Commission declared obscene material
   "beneficial" to mankind.11 Almost instantly, the English-speaking
   countries liberalized their laws against smut. America continues to be
   the fountainhead of filth and immorality, and its influence is global.

   The point is that numerous leaders in other nations are watching to see
   how we will handle the issue of homosexuality and marriage. Only two
   countries in the world have authorized gay marriage to date-the
   Netherlands and Belgium. Canada is leaning in that direction, as are
   numerous European countries. Dr. Darrell Reid, president of Focus on
   the Family Canada, told me two weeks ago that his country is carefully
   monitoring the United States to see where it is going. If we take this
   step off a cliff, the family on every continent will splinter at an
   accelerated rate. Conversely, our U.S. Supreme Court has made it clear
   that it looks to European and Canadian law in the interpretation of our
   Constitution.13 What an outrage! That should have been grounds for
   impeachment, but the Congress, as usual, remained passive and silent.

Argument #9. Evangelism Will Be Hindered

   Perhaps most important, the spread of the Gospel of Jesus Christ will
   be severely curtailed. The family has been God's primary vehicle for
   evangelism since the beginning.

   Its most important assignment has been the propagation of the human
   race and the handing down of the faith to our children. Malachi 2:15
   reads, referring to husbands and wives, "Has not the Lord made them
   one? In flesh and spirit they are His. And why one? Because He was
   seeking godly offspring. So guard yourself in your spirit, and do not
   break faith with the wife of your youth" (NIV).

   That responsibility to teach the next generation will never recover
   from the loss of committed, God-fearing families. The younger
   generation and those yet to come will be deprived of the Good News, as
   has already occurred in France, Germany and other European countries.
   Instead of providing for a father and mother, the advent of homosexual
   marriage will create millions of motherless children and fatherless
   kids. This is morally wrong, and is condemned in Scripture. Are we now
   going to join the Netherlands and Belgium to become the third country
   in the history of the world to "normalize" and legalize behavior that
   has been prohibited by God himself? Heaven help us if we do!

Argument #10. The Culture Will Be Anti-Christian

   The culture war will be over, and I fear, the world may soon become "as
   it was in the days of Noah" (Matthew 24:37, NIV). This is the climactic
   moment in the battle to preserve the family, and future generations
   hang in the balance.

   This apocalyptic and pessimistic view of the institution of the family
   and its future will sound alarmist to many, but I think it will prove
   accurate unless-unless-God's people awaken and begin an even greater
   vigil of prayer for our nation. That's why Shirley and I are urgently
   seeking the Lord's favor and asking Him to hear the petitions of His
   people and heal our land.

   As of this time, however, large segments of the church appear to be
   unaware of the danger; its leaders are surprisingly silent about our
   peril (although we are tremendously thankful for the efforts of those
   who have spoken out on this issue). The lawless abandon occurring
   recently in California, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Washington and
   elsewhere should have shocked us out of our lethargy. So far, I'm
   alarmed to say, the concern and outrage of the American people have not
   translated into action.

   This reticence on behalf of Christians is deeply troubling. Marriage is
   a sacrament designed by God that serves as a metaphor for the
   relationship between Christ and His Church. Tampering with His plan for
   the family is immoral and wrong. To violate the Lord's expressed will
   for humankind, especially in regard to behavior that He has prohibited,
   is to court disaster.

   Galatians 5:14
   For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love
   thy neighbour as thyself.

Deuteronomy 25:5-8

Marriage Duty of the Surviving Brother

   5 â€œIf brothers dwell together, and one of them dies and has no son, the
   widow of the dead man shall not be married to a stranger outside the
   family; her husbandâ€™s brother shall go in to her, take her as his wife,
   and perform the duty of a husbandâ€™s brother to her.

   6 And it shall be that the firstborn son which she bears will succeed
   to the name of his dead brother, that his name may not be blotted out
   of Israel.

   7 But if the man does not want to take his brotherâ€™s wife, then let his
   brotherâ€™s wife go up to the gate to the elders, and say, â€˜My husbandâ€™s
   brother refuses to raise up a name to his brother in Israel; he will
   not perform the duty of my husbandâ€™s brother.â€™

   8 Then the elders of his city shall call him and speak to him. But if
   he stands firm and says, â€˜I do not want to take her,â€™

No Gay Marriage bring you these Bible verses:

   Ecclesiastes 3:1
   To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the
   heaven: A time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a
   time to pluck up that which is planted;
   Galatians 6:9
   And let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap,
   if we faint not.
   Psalms 119:90
   Thy faithfulness is unto all generations: thou hast established the
   earth, and it abideth.
   1 Corinthians 13:13
   And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of
   these is charity.
   Psalms 16:11
   Thou wilt shew me the path of life: in thy presence is fulness of joy;
   at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore.


                                Bumpersticker

                              [bumper1_100.jpg]

                                 Signup for
                              Weekly Newsletter

                          If you are Gay Click here
                                    Gay?

                           Gay Marriage Amendment

                          Gay and Lesbian Marriage

                              Marriage Equality

                        Marriage Protection Amendment

             Sign up to become a Church Coordinator. click below
                             (Gay Marriage Ban)

                  Click here for state bans on gay marriage
                           (Ban Same Sex Marriage)

                                    Links
                            Ban Same Sex Marriage

                      Christian View Same Sex Marriage

                          Articles on Gay Marriage

                       Article on Homosexual Marriage

                        Bible and Homosexual Marriage

                       Westminster Confession of Faith

                              Septuagint Bible

                             Links and Resources

                              Ten Commandments

                             Marriage Amendment




            Email Page Print Page  Contact Us  Newsletter Signup

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-34.txt>

   #Search mirror

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-M3TH25P

   mirrorLoad mobile navigation
     * News
          + UK News
          + US News
          + World News
          + Weird News
          + Crime
          + Real Life Stories
          + Science
          + Health
          + Motoring
       Expand
     * Politics
     * Sport
          + Boxing
          + Racing
          + WWE
          + F1
          + Golf
          + Cricket
          + Rugby League
          + Other Sports
               o Rugby Union
               o UFC
               o Tennis
               o Athletics
            Expand
       Expand
     * Football
     * Celebs
     * TV
     * Film
     * Royals
     * Weird News
     * Tech
     * Money
     * Travel
          + Africa
          + Asia & Middle East
          + Australia & New Zealand
          + Caribbean
          + Central & South America
          + Cheap Flights
          + Cruises
          + Europe
          + News
          + UK & Ireland
          + USA & Canada
       Expand
     * Fashion
     * Mums
     * Competitions
     * Quizzes
     * Got a Story?

     * My Account
     * Subscriptions
     * Sign Out

   (BUTTON)
     *
     *
     *
     *

     * Shop
     * Discounts
     * Offers
     * Bingo
     * Dating
     * Jobs
     * Funeral Notices
     * Horoscopes
     * Cartoons
     * Crosswords

     * Trade Classified
     * Find a job
     * InYourArea
     * Discount Codes
     * Mirror Collections
     * Psychic
     * Find a Therapist
     * Find a local business
     * Shop
     * About Us
     * Contact Us
     * Work for us
     * Follow Us
     * Sell Your Story
     * How to Complain
     * Corrections & Clarifications
     * Google Survey
     * Privacy Statement
     * Cookie Policy
     * Terms and Conditions
     * Subscribe to Daily and Sunday Mirror newspapers
     * Subscribe to tablet edition
     * Irish Mirror
     * © 2019 MGN Limited

    1. Home
    2. News
    3. Politics
    4. Human rights

   News

      MP who backs jailing gay people for life welcomed to Downing Street

   Jovah Kamateeka - who claimed gay marriage will hasten "the end of the
   world" - spoke in Parliament at the Women MPs of the World Conference

     * Share
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

     *
     *  Comments

   By
   Dan BloomOnline Political Editor
     * 16:00, 11 NOV 2018
     * Updated20:09, 11 NOV 2018

   News

   [javascript]
   [4221396001_5860629157001_5860624661001-vs.jpg?pubId=4221396001&amp;vid
   eoId=5860624661001]
   Video Loading
   Video Unavailable
   Click to playTap to play
   The video will start in 8Cancel
   Play now
   Get politics updates directly to your inbox
   ____________________ (Submit) Subscribe
   See our privacy noticeMore newsletters
   Thank you for subscribingWe have more newslettersShow meSee our privacy
   notice
   Could not subscribe, try again laterInvalid Email

   An MP who has backed jailing gay people for life was welcomed to a
   glittering Downing Street reception - and even spoke in the UK
   Parliament.

   Uganda's Jovah Kamateeka was among more than 100 female MPs from five
   continents who descended on Westminster last week for the Women MPs of
   the World Conference.

   In a speech during the conference, pioneered by veteran Labour MP
   Harriet Harman and held in the House of Commons chamber, Ms Kamateeka
   boasted Uganda's constitution "guarantees human rights".

   She was also invited to a reception in No10 where Theresa May told
   delegates: "We're helping give women a greater voice."

   But now the Sunday Times has revealed Ms Kamateeka as a supporter of
   Uganda's homophobic Anti-Homosexuality Bill.

Read More

     * Brexit blow for Theresa May as Cabinet colleague warns she could
       face defeat

   Jovah Kamateeka claimed gay marriage will hasten "the end of the world"
   (Image: UK Parliament)

      Read More

     * Remembrance Day: Jeremy Corbyn and Theresa May lay wreaths with
       German President

   The 2014 law was originally dubbed the "Kill the Gays Bill" due to a
   clause allowing the death penalty, which was dropped.

   Despite being watered down, the Bill toughened up anti-gay laws
   allowing life imprisonment for so-called "aggravated homosexuality".

   Uganda's constitutional court eventually struck down the anti-gay law
   in August 2014.

   But Ugandan Parliamentary records show Ms Kamateeka - who leads the
   Parliament's human rights committee - defended it.

   She said in April this year: "We stood firm and passed the
   Anti-Homosexuality Bill in this House. It was only the courts of law
   that nullified our actions. As for us, we had passed the Bill into
   law."

      Read More

     * No Deal Brexit: Army 'ready to help' if UK crashes out with no
       agreement

   Ms Kamateeka was among more than 100 female MPs invited to Westminster
   (Image: UK Parliament)

   She added: "God created man and woman for posterity.

   "If we allow that men will marry men and women marry women, there will
   be no children and we will see the end of the world sooner."

   And she said: "We should say no to bad practices and we should say no
   to practices and values that are not Ugandan and practices and values
   that are not African.

   "We must be able to stand firm.

   Debate last Thursday during the Women MPs of the World Conference
   (Image: UK Parliament/Jessica Taylor)

   "That Bill should come back and we pass it because we must stand firm
   for who we are."

   Last week's groundbreaking conference was co-hosted by Harriet Harman
   and Penny Mordaunt, the government's equalities minister.

   A UK government source confirmed all the MPs who were invited to
   Parliament were also invited to the Downing Street reception.

   The event was organised by Harriet Harman and Equalities Minister Penny
   Mordaunt (pictured) (Image: UK Parliament/Jessica Taylor)

   A government spokesman said: "We are clear that homophobia in all its
   forms is completely unacceptable.

   "Getting more women into politics gives a voice to women and girls
   around the world to enable them to fight for their rights, creates
   female role models and leads to legislation and work which tackles
   gender inequalities and discrimination."

   A No10 source insisted Jovah Kamateeka was not in one of the groups of
   women formally introduced to Theresa May during the reception.

   A government spokesman added: "This government has been clear about the
   need to reform legislation that, in many parts of the world, still
   criminalises same-sex relationships and we have offered our support to
   member states seeking to reform such outdated legislation.”

Read More

Latest UK politics news

     * May faces historic Brexit vote - LIVE
     * What happens next after defeat
     * Huge Pension Credit change 'sneaked out'
     * 17,000 died waiting for benefits

     * Like us on Facebook
     * Follow us on Twitter
     * Politics Newsletter

   MirrorPolitics
     * Follow @MirrorPolitics

   Subscribe to our Politics newsletterEnter email
   ____________________Subscribe

   Comments
   Show more comments

   More On
     * Westminster
     * House of Commons
     * Theresa May
     * Human rights
     * Gay
     * Politics

     * (Submit) News
     * (Submit) all

     * (Submit) Most Read
     * (Submit) Most Recent

   [transparent.png]
   PoliceDerry 'car bomb': Police warning as vehicle up in flames near
   courthouseNorthern Irish politicians have condemned the blast outside a
   courthouse in Bishop Street Derry, with one MLA calling it a
   "disgraceful act of terrorism"
   [transparent.png]
   Met OfficeUK weather forecast: EIGHT INCHES of snow as temperatures
   plunge in polar freezeThe Met Office says the weather is set to turn
   colder, bringing a greater risk of snow, sleet and ice
   [transparent.png]
   DogsBoo the Pomeranian dead: 'World's Cutest Dog' dies of 'broken
   heart'Boo the Pomeranian's death was announced to his millions of
   Facebook and Instagram followers this morning
   [transparent.png]
   UK NewsPrince Philip 'threatened to throw Queen out of car' after she
   'yelped' in terrorGyles Brandreth, a friend and biographer of The Duke
   of Edinburgh, spoke about the royal's love of driving fast following
   Prince Phillip's accident on Thursday
   [transparent.png]
   Royal Family'Prince Philip nearly ran my dad off the road - then stuck
   his finger up at him'EXCLUSIVE: Rob Stevenson says his dad David was
   forced to take evasive action after the Duke allegedly sped around a
   tight corner near the Sandringham Estate two decades ago
   [transparent.png]
   Raymond van BarneveldDarts legend Raymond van Barneveld's wife reveals
   how she fled naked from gunmenEXCLUSIVE: Silvia van Barneveld broke
   down in court as she told of her ordeal at the hands of violent
   intruders who beat her and held a gun to her head before she fled
   [transparent.png]
   Theresa MayHow Theresa May could be forced to postpone leaving EU until
   2020EXCLUSIVE: MPs will extend Article 50 unless Theresa May gets her
   withdrawal agreement approved in Parliament by February 26
   [transparent.png]
   PoliticsDiane Abbott's Question Time row deepens as Labour complains
   about her treatmentEXCLUSIVE: The Sunday Mirror understands Labour
   party bosses lodged complaints with the BBC after a heated debate on
   its flagship political show
   [transparent.png]
   Prince Philip, Duke of EdinburghPrince Philip's crash victim reveals
   what really happened - and he hasn't said sorryWORLD EXCLUSIVE:
   Mum-of-two Emma Fairweather tells the Sunday Mirror of the terrifying
   moment the Duke’s 4x4 Land Rover Freelander pulled out of a side road
   and hit them
   [transparent.png]
   Baby PChild protection services STILL failing vulnerable kids 10 years
   after Baby P deathEXCLUSIVE: A Sunday People investigation found the
   potential for similar tragedies is stark - despite vows of "never
   again"
     * (Submit) Most Read
     * (Submit) Most Recent

   [transparent.png]
   PoliceDerry 'car bomb': Police warning as vehicle up in flames near
   courthouseNorthern Irish politicians have condemned the blast outside a
   courthouse in Bishop Street Derry, with one MLA calling it a
   "disgraceful act of terrorism"
   [transparent.png]
   Met OfficeUK weather forecast: EIGHT INCHES of snow as temperatures
   plunge in polar freezeThe Met Office says the weather is set to turn
   colder, bringing a greater risk of snow, sleet and ice
   [transparent.png]
   DogsBoo the Pomeranian dead: 'World's Cutest Dog' dies of 'broken
   heart'Boo the Pomeranian's death was announced to his millions of
   Facebook and Instagram followers this morning
   [transparent.png]
   Michael JacksonMichael Jackson rape allegations - Full extent revealed
   and its harrowingLeaving Neverland features shock allegations from a
   dancer who previously sued Michael Jackson's estate for $1.6 billion
   [transparent.png]
   UK NewsPrince Philip 'threatened to throw Queen out of car' after she
   'yelped' in terrorGyles Brandreth, a friend and biographer of The Duke
   of Edinburgh, spoke about the royal's love of driving fast following
   Prince Phillip's accident on Thursday
   [transparent.png]
   Manny Pacquiao vs Adrien BronerManny Pacquiao vs Adrien Broner LIVE
   updates, results and fight timePacquiao defends his world welterweight
   title against the American upstart in Las Vegas tonight
   [transparent.png]
   Theresa MayHow Theresa May could be forced to postpone leaving EU until
   2020EXCLUSIVE: MPs will extend Article 50 unless Theresa May gets her
   withdrawal agreement approved in Parliament by February 26
   [transparent.png]
   PoliticsDiane Abbott's Question Time row deepens as Labour complains
   about her treatmentEXCLUSIVE: The Sunday Mirror understands Labour
   party bosses lodged complaints with the BBC after a heated debate on
   its flagship political show
   [transparent.png]
   Prince Philip, Duke of EdinburghPrince Philip's crash victim reveals
   what really happened - and he hasn't said sorryWORLD EXCLUSIVE:
   Mum-of-two Emma Fairweather tells the Sunday Mirror of the terrifying
   moment the Duke’s 4x4 Land Rover Freelander pulled out of a side road
   and hit them
   [transparent.png]
   Baby PChild protection services STILL failing vulnerable kids 10 years
   after Baby P deathEXCLUSIVE: A Sunday People investigation found the
   potential for similar tragedies is stark - despite vows of "never
   again"

   Top Stories

   [transparent.png]
   CrimeMurdered mobster's lover forced to set a password at the
   undertakers to stop rival gangsters visiting his body to gloat
   EXCLUSIVE: Louise Lydiate, who lived with mobster Paul “Mr Big” Massey
   for 30 years, says she still has nightmares
   [transparent.png]
   DogsDogs that cheated death: Brits pluck 40 pups from brutal China meat
   markets
   WARNING: DISTRESSING IMAGES Exclusive: Activists are rescuing dogs from
   slaughter as butchers stock up to meet demand for Chinese New Year on
   February 5
   [transparent.png]
   PregnancyGrieving first-time mum's baby would have survived if he'd
   been born an hour sooner
   EXCLUSIVE: Kelly Angelo's precious baby Rafe died of oxygen starvation
   - the result of catastrophic mistakes
   [transparent.png]
   Miracle babies'Miracle' baby boy who survived TWENTY-FIVE heart attacks
   in one day
   EXCLUSIVE: Little Theo Fry, now 19 months, has survived an incredible
   17 operations and 30 heart attacks in his short life
   [transparent.png]
   PoliticsNew Brexit polls on Leave/Remain, state of parties and MPs
   going unpaid
   EXCLUSIVE: Real responses to Brexit have been revealed in polls showing
   many Brits would like to see Theresa May and Jeremy Corbyn team up
   [transparent.png]
   HospitalsTwo patients die after catching disease linked to PIGEON
   DROPPINGS at hospital
   An investigation has been launched to find out how patients contracted
   Cryptococcus at Queen Elizabeth University Hospital in Glasgow,
   Scotland
   [transparent.png]
   Royal Family'Prince Philip nearly ran my dad off the road on a bend -
   then stuck his finger up at him'
   EXCLUSIVE: Rob Stevenson says his dad David was forced to take evasive
   action near the Sandringham Estate two decades ago
   [transparent.png]
   Transfer news liveTransfer news LIVE as Man Utd and Chelsea battle for
   Coutinho - and Cardiff break recordArsenal, Man Utd and Liverpool are
   among the top Premier League clubs looking to bring new signings in
   before Deadline Day
   [transparent.png]
   National LotteryLotto results: Saturday's winning National Lottery
   numbers for £7.3million jackpot
   Winning the double rollover jackpot would certainly be a good way to
   beat the January blues
   [transparent.png]
   Michael JacksonMichael Jackson rape allegations - Full extent revealed
   and its harrowing
   Leaving Neverland features shock allegations from a dancer who
   previously sued Michael Jackson's estate for $1.6 billion
   [transparent.png]
   Prince Philip, Duke of EdinburghPrince Philip, 97, 'could face £36k
   insurance premium' over car crash
   Quote details included the Duke's age and details of the crash on
   Thursday
   [transparent.png]
   CrimeHow "a**hole" Brit tourists became New Zealand's 'most hated' in
   just a WEEK
   A deportation notice has reportedly been issued against the tourists,
   said to be from Liverpool, after a string of incidents

     * News
     * Politics
     * Football
     * Sport
     * Celebs
     * TV
     * Film
     * Weird News
     * Quizzes
     * Tech
     * Money
     * Travel
     * Fashion
     * Mums
     * Motoring

Follow us

     *
     *
     *
     *

     * Trade Classified
     * Find a job
     * InYourArea
     * Discount Codes
     * Mirror Collections
     * Psychic
     * Find a Therapist
     * Find a local business
     * Shop
     *

   About Us

     Contact Us

     Work for us

     Follow Us

     Sell Your Story

     How to Complain

     Corrections & Clarifications

     Google Survey

     Privacy Statement

     Cookie Policy

     Terms and Conditions

     Subscribe to Daily and Sunday Mirror newspapers

     Subscribe to tablet edition

     Irish Mirror

     © 2019 MGN Limited

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-35.txt>

   #search

     * (BUTTON)
     * Latest
          +
          +
          +
          +
     * Obsessions

These are the core obsessions that drive our newsroom—defining topics of
seismic importance to the global economy.
          +
          +
          +
          +
     * Featured
          +
          +
          +
          +
     *
     * Emails

Our emails are made to shine in your inbox, with something fresh every
morning, afternoon, and weekend.
          +
          +
          +
          +
     * Editions

Quartz is a guide to the new global economy for people excited by change.
          +

Quartz Africa
            The important stories of innovation across the continent’s
            wide-ranging economies
          +

Quartz India
            In-depth coverage of the world’s largest democracy for India
            and its far-flung diaspora
          +

Quartzy
            Lifestyle, culture, and living well in the new global economy
          +

Quartz at Work
            Management news, advice, and ideas for business leaders
          +

Atlas
            Create, share, and discover charts, using the same tools as
            the Quartz newsroom
     * Become a member
     * (BUTTON)

   Amanda Baeza for Quartz
   Argentina to Mexico, nations across the region are leading the global
   LGBT rights revolution.
   UNDER THE RADAR

Latin America has become an unlikely leader in LGBT rights

   By Anna-Catherine BrigidaJune 6, 2018

   In 2010, Argentina became the first Latin American country to legalize
   same-sex marriage, largely due to the work of LGBT activists like
   Esteban Paulon.

   Paulon, who didn’t have a partner at the time, saw this movement as a
   political struggle, rather than a personal one.

   “I fought for the law without knowing if I would ever get married or
   not,” said Paulon, vice president of the Argentine LGBT Federation.
   “But on the journey to this achievement, I met my partner.”

   Paulon and his partner were married three years after the law was
   passed—turning a national political achievement into a personal
   milestone they were able to celebrate with their friends and family.

   “If the state says that all families are equal before the law and that
   all families have the same worth, this inevitably has an effect on
   daily life and on social perception about sexual diversity,” Paulon
   said. “The fact of being able to access marriage is also personal.”

   Since 2010, more than 15,000 same-sex couples have been married in
   Argentina, the tenth country in the world to legalize same-sex
   marriage. The decision illustrated Latin America’s unlikely leadership
   in the fight for LGBT equal rights. Indeed, the focus on the US gay
   rights movement has overshadowed other countries where important gains
   have been won. Finally, Latin America is being recognized as a major
   leader in the global LGBT movement by both academics and major global
   activists groups like Human Rights Watch.

Following Argentina’s Lead

   And rightly so. Not only was Argentina the first Latin American nation
   to legalize marriage equality, but it has also enacted some of the most
   progressive transgender rights laws in the world. Most notable is a
   2012 ruling that allows transgender folks to change their gender on
   government documents without first having to receive psychiatric
   counseling or transition surgery. Argentina also requires that public
   and private medical facilities provide free hormone therapy and gender
   reassignment surgery.
   While credit has long been given to the US gay rights movement, the
   focus on the English-speaking world has overshadowed other countries
   where important gains have been won.

   Since Argentina legalized same-sex marriage in 2010, Colombia, Brazil,
   Uruguay, Mexico City and 12 Mexican states have also made same-sex
   marriage legal. Other nations, such as Chile and Ecuador, recognize
   civil unions between same-sex couples, though not marriages.These
   advances haven’t been won without vocal—and at time violent—resistance.
   But Latin America’s LGBT push demonstrates how vibrant activist
   networks, effective messaging to citizens, and access to democratic
   institutions have made the legalization of same-sex marriage possible.

   Argentina has a strong history of LGBT organizing, dating back to at
   least the 1960s, explains Jordi Díez, professor at Canada’s University
   of Guelph who has studied the legalization of same-sex marriage in the
   Americas. These networks were key to getting the law passed.

   Argentina transitioned from a brutal military dictatorship to
   democratic rule in the early 1980s—a shift founded on the basis of
   respect for human rights. Accordingly, local LGBT organizations
   successfully appealed to citizens to approve same-sex marriage by
   framing it as a human rights issue.

   Beyond human rights, Argentina also has a unique relationship with
   religion. True, Latin America is known for being overwhelmingly
   Catholic. But the Argentine political system has developed without the
   infiltration of the church within the legislative assembly, Díez
   explains. This means—much like in the US—Argentina has essentially kept
   the church from defining the state.
   REUTERS/Daniel Aguilar
   Same-sex couples celebrate their marriages in Mexico.

   Similar approaches were successful in Mexico, Brazil, and Colombia,
   though they met with more religious resistance than in Argentina.
   Meanwhile, despite Chile’s reputation as one of the most progressive
   countries in the region, a surprisingly strong church has been able to
   halt a range of liberal policies including same-sex marriage and
   abortion.

   Chile is just one of many Latin American nations that have yet to fully
   embrace same-sex rights. Much of the reason for this is economic, says
   Díez: “In Latin America, there is a very strong association with levels
   of economic development, which include levels of education,
   industrialization, et cetera, and support for same-sex marriage.”
   Countries colonized by the Spanish or Portuguese never fully
   criminalized homosexuality like their British colonial counterparts.

   Guatemala, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Honduras score lowest on the
   development index and also have low approval ratings of same-sex
   marriage. In Cuba, the same-sex marriage cause has finally taken up by
   Fidel Castro’s daughter, Mariela Casto, and is expected to be included
   in a larger constitutional reform process slated for this summer. Also,
   slow to same-sex marriage rights are countries in the English-speaking
   Caribbean, which Díez attributes to the legacy of colonialism.

   Countries colonized by the Spanish or Portuguese never fully
   criminalized homosexuality like their British colonial counterparts.
   This means homophobic perceptions may be more deeply entrenched in
   these Anglophone societies—both new and old—according to Díez. Far more
   recently, Spain was among the first European nations to legalize
   same-sex marriage in 2005, which set an example for its former
   colonies. Meanwhile, same-sex marriage wasn’t legalized in the United
   Kingdom until 2013.

The Right to Life

   Although a large portion of the region now has access to a wide range
   of LGBT rights, this fight has not been won without resistance.
   Unfortunately, there is still a high level of violence against the LGBT
   population—particularly trans men and women—in the region. Indeed, a
   2015 study by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights tallied
   nearly 600 LGBT murders across Latin America from January 2013 to March
   2014.

   “Alongside the advance of marriage rights in places like Argentina,
   Uruguay, Colombia, and parts of Mexico, you also have the rise of
   fundamentalist groups linked, above all, to Evangelical groups,” said
   Paulon, who has traveled across the region in the course of his
   activism. Securing basic rights like personal safety remain at the
   forefront of these “outlier” nations—where marriage, sadly, still seems
   like a distant dream.

   Aldo Alexander Peña, a trans man living in El Salvador, was
   hospitalized in 2015 after he was beaten unconscious by police in a
   case that sparked national and international outcry. Since then, Pena
   has become heavily involved in LGBT activism. His current priority—and
   that of the handful of trans-rights organizations in El Salvador —is
   passing a gender identity law to allow trans Salvadorans to legally
   change their name and gender.
   Securing basic rights like personal safety remain at the forefront of
   these “outlier” nations—where marriage, sadly, still seems like a
   distant dream.

   “It’s not that we don’t want to be able to get married and have kids
   one day,” Peña says. “but when we think about it, if they are already
   denying us the right to gender identity so profoundly, how will they
   respond the day that LGBT organizations in El Salvador start to fight
   for same-sex marriage?”

   Peña ran for a seat on the mayoral council in El Salvador’s March 2018
   legislative elections. He didn’t win but believes just running is a
   step forward for the LGBT community in El Salvador as it promotes LGBT
   civic participation and political representation. Yet as Peña can
   attest, much of Central America has a long way to go.

   There were at least 38 deadly hate crimes against LGBT Salvadorans last
   year.

The Campaign for Costa Rica

   Larissa Arroyo, a Costa Rican LGBT rights activist who works with the
   organization Acceder says: “It’s important to understand that marriage
   is not the most important goal or the ultimate objective in the fight
   for equal rights, but rather it is a step, which is often symbolic. The
   goal is really the equal treatment of and the end of discrimination
   against LGBT people.”

   All eyes were on Costa Rica this spring during its presidential
   elections when same-sex marriage became a key issue.

   On Jan. 9, the InterAmerican Court of Human Rights (IACHR) declared in
   a landmark advisory opinion that the American Convention on Human
   Rights—to which Costa Rica is bound—requires all 23 signatory countries
   to legalize same-sex marriage.

   The announcement came during campaign season for Costa Rica’s
   presidential elections. And while human rights activists rejoiced, many
   conservative forces were galvanized to fight the ruling—which quickly
   became a “wedge” issue.

   Throughout the campaign, polls predicted a tight race between Carlos
   Alvarado—of the ruling party, against evangelical Fabricio Alvarado (no
   relation)—who rallied support by speaking out against the IACHR
   decision and the LGBT population.

   “For the first time in my country, I was scared. I was scared for my
   life and for the life of my colleagues,” said Arroyo. During the
   campaign, reports of hate crimes and discrimination against LGBT Costa
   Ricans, Arroyo said.

   Arroyo was prepared for the worst as Costa Ricans headed to the ballot
   box on April 1. She watched the results with friends and colleagues,
   full of fear and anticipation. But Fabricio Alvarado was overwhelmingly
   defeated, losing by a 20 point margin. Relieved, Arroyo was one of many
   Costa Ricans who celebrated with rainbow flags at the Hispanidad
   Fountain, a common meeting place for marches and celebrations in Costa
   Rica’s capital, San Jose.

   “In some way, it was how we said, ‘Ok, now we can return to publicly
   being who we are and we don’t have to be scared anymore of being the
   target of some type of violence,’” she said. Still, same-sex marriage
   is still not legal in Costa Rica, and legislation would have to be
   proposed in Congress to afford this right to all citizens.

   And so the fight continues.

   “Our view, at least from the point of activists, is that we are not
   just going to let them give us a small victory,” said Arroyo. “We want
   all of our rights and no more discrimination.”

   This story is part of our series on Global Pride.
   ____________________

Tags

   mexico, LGBT, latin america, argentina, marriage equality
   Created with Sketch.LatestCreated with Sketch.FeaturedCreated with
   Sketch.ObsessionsCreated with Sketch.EmailsEditions
   (BUTTON) Close

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MRD738C

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-36.txt>

   #alternate alternate alternate publisher

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-W9SLGS

   (Submit) Discover Thomson Reuters
   FinancialGovernment SolutionsLegalReuters News AgencyRisk Management
   SolutionsTax & AccountingBlog: Answers OnInnovation @ Thomson Reuters
   Directory of sites
   Login
   Contact
   Support
     * World
     * Business
     * Markets
     * Politics
     * TV

   ____________________
   (Submit) (Submit)
   (BUTTON)
   Brexit
   The Z Factor
   Imprisoned In Myanmar
   CES
   Breakingviews
   Future of Money
   World At Work

   World News
   January 10, 2018 / 12:58 AM / in a year

Latin American human rights court urges same-sex marriage legalization

   Enrique Andres Pretel

   2 Min Read
   [?m=02&amp;d=20180110&amp;t=2&amp;i=1220712592&amp;r=LYNXMPEE0905E&amp;
   w=20]
   People celebrate after the Inter-American Court of Human Rights called
   on Costa Rica and Latin America to recognize equal marriage, in San
   Jose, Costa Rica, January 9, 2018. REUTERS/Juan Carlos Ulate

   SAN JOSE (Reuters) - A Latin American human rights court said on
   Tuesday that countries in the region should legalize same-sex unions,
   endorsing a growing push for marriage equality despite opposition from
   the Roman Catholic Church.

   The Inter-American Court of Human Rights’ decision came in response to
   a petition submitted two years ago by Costa Rican president Luis
   Guillermo Solis, who had vowed to increase rights for lesbian, gay,
   bisexual and transgender people in the majority Catholic country.

   A number of Latin American countries, including Costa Rica, do not
   allow same-sex marriage. However, that trend is changing and in recent
   years same-sex couples have been allowed to marry in Argentina, Brazil,
   Colombia, Uruguay and some parts of Mexico, despite church opposition.

   The Inter-American Court, based in Costa Rica’s capital San Jose, said
   the countries that it oversees should treat same-sex couples “without
   discrimination,” ensuring that they receive the same family and
   financial rights as heterosexual couples.

   It also recommended that these rights be ensured through temporary
   decrees while governments pursue permanent laws.

   Costa Rica’s government celebrated the decision, saying that lawmakers
   would take steps to adopt the court’s criteria “in its totality.”

   “The court ... reminds all states on the continent, including ours, of
   their obligation and historical debt toward this population,” Costa
   Rica’s vice president Ana Helena Chacon said at a press conference.

   Writing by Daina Beth Solomon, Editing by Rosalba O'Brien
   Our Standards:The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
   0 : 0
     * narrow-browser-and-phone
     * medium-browser-and-portrait-tablet
     * landscape-tablet
     * medium-wide-browser
     * wide-browser-and-larger
     * medium-browser-and-landscape-tablet
     * medium-wide-browser-and-larger
     * above-phone
     * portrait-tablet-and-above
     * above-portrait-tablet
     * landscape-tablet-and-above
     * landscape-tablet-and-medium-wide-browser
     * portrait-tablet-and-below
     * landscape-tablet-and-below

     * Apps
     * Newsletters
     * Advertise with Us
     * Advertising Guidelines
     * Cookies
     * Terms of Use
     * Privacy

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete
   list of exchanges and delays.

   © 2019 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-37.txt>



   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-W22QHZ9

   Skip to main content

   (BUTTON) Toggle navigation

The Straits Times

Asia

     * Home
     * Singapore
     * Politics
     * Asia
          + East Asia
          + SE Asia
          + South Asia
          + Australia/NZ
     * World
     * Videos
     * Multimedia
          + Photos
          + Graphics
     * Lifestyle
     * Food
     * Forum
          + Letters in Print
          + Letters on the Web
          + Readers' Post
     * Opinion
          + ST Editorial
          + Cartoons
     * Business
          + Companies & Markets
          + Economy
          + Banking
          + Property
          + Invest
          + Market
     * Sport
          + Football
          + Tennis
          + Formula One
          + Basketball
          + Golf
          + Schools
     * Tech
          + Smartphones
          + Tablets
          + PCs
          + Cameras
          + Audio
          + Wearables
          + Games & Apps
     * Games
     * More
          + Multimedia
          + Forum
          + Opinion
          + Business
          + Sport
          + Tech
          + Games

     * SPH Websites
          + news with benefits
          + ST Wine
          + SPH Rewards
          + STJobs
          + STCars
          + STProperty
          + STClassifieds
          + SITES
          + AsiaOne
          + Berita Harian
          + Hardwarezone
          + Lianhe Wanbao
          + omy.sg
          + STOMP
          + SGCarMart
          + ShareInvestor
          + SRX Property
          + tabla
          + Tamil Murasu
          + The Business Times
          + The New Paper
          + zaobao.sg
          + Advertise with us

   (BUTTON)

   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     * Print Edition
     * ePaper
     * ST Index

   (BUTTON)

Taiwan still divided on gay marriage, says President Tsai Ing-wen

   Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen has openly supported the legalisation of
   gay marriage, but her majority government has been accused of dragging
   its feet on implementing the change.
   Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen has openly supported the legalisation of
   gay marriage, but her majority government has been accused of dragging
   its feet on implementing the change.PHOTO: AFP

   Published
   Jun 25, 2018, 9:29 pm SGT
   More
   Share Tweet Linkedin Pin Google+ Reddit Print
   Permalink:
   ____________________
   (Submit) Copy

   TAIPEI (AFP) - Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen remained non-committal on
   Monday (June 25) on whether her government will actively push for quick
   implementation of a landmark court ruling last year which paved the way
   for same-sex couples to marry.

   Taiwan's top court in May 2017 legalised gay marriage - the first place
   in Asia to do so - and ruled its decision must be implemented within
   two years.

   Should the government fail to approve legislation within the deadline,
   the court ordered that gay marriage automatically become legal anyway.

   Campaigners were hoping Ms Tsai would help press for a decision in
   Parliament ahead of the two-year mark, but couples are still waiting to
   tie the knot over a year after the court ruling.

   In an interview with AFP on Monday, when asked if she would push the
   issue, Ms Tsai said the government would "bridge the differences
   society holds on this issue in order to propose a comprehensive Bill".

   She cast the issue as dividing generations in Taiwan.

   "Same-sex marriage is also a reflection of the generational gap. In
   Taiwan, those above 40 tend to have different views to those under 40,"
   she told AFP.

   Participants react as they take part in a lesbian, gay, bisexual and
   transgender (LGBT) pride parade in Taipei, Taiwan, on Oct 28, 2017.
   Related Story

Taiwan holds Asia's largest pride parade; waits for same-sex marriage to be
legalised

   Conservative groups have staged mass protests against legalising
   same-sex unions and have accused the courts of bypassing the government
   on the issue.

   Ms Tsai described the court ruling as "one phase" of the reform and
   said the government must abide by its decision.

   Taiwan is seen as one of the most progressive societies in Asia when it
   comes to gay rights, and it stages the biggest gay pride parade in Asia
   annually.

   Ms Tsai has openly supported the legalisation of gay marriage, but
   since last year's decision by the constitutional court, her majority
   government has been accused of dragging its feet on implementing the
   change.

   The ruling said the island's current laws preventing same-sex unions
   violate the Constitution's guarantees of freedom of marriage and
   equality, a move welcomed by activists around the world.
   Topics:
     * TAIWAN
     * HOMOSEXUALITY/LGBT
     * TSAI ING-WEN

   More
   Share Tweet Linkedin Pin Google+ Reddit Print
   Permalink:
   ____________________
   (Submit) Copy

Branded Content

Subscribe to The Straits Times

   call 6388-3838 or click here
   Available for
   iPhones and iPads
   Available in
   Google Play

   Back to the top [arrow-up.svg]

     * Singapore
     * Politics
     * Asia

     * World
     * Videos
     * Multimedia

     * Lifestyle
     * Food
     * Forum

     * Opinion
     * Business
     * Sport

     * Tech
     * Games

Follow ST

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

The Straits Times

   Terms & ConditionsData Protection PolicyNeed help? Reach us
   here.Advertise with us

   SPH Digital News / Copyright © 2018 Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. Co.
   Regn. No. 198402868E. All rights reserved

   We have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and
   apologise for the inconvenience caused. Until we resolve the issues,
   subscribers need not log in to access ST Digital articles. But a log-in
   is still required for our PDFs.
   (BUTTON) Close

   [pixel?mid=00529a8e9e01c3bfad3c4bd7ec1ab148f6]

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-38.txt>

   #VOA - Top Stories [RSS]

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-N8MP7P

   [811691295?pageName=voa%3aeng%3ar%3a4499246%3aasia%27s+youngest+nation+
   celebrates+2nd+lgbt+parade++++&amp;c6=asia%27s+youngest+nation+celebrat
   es+2nd+lgbt+parade++++&amp;v6=D=c6&amp;g=https%3a%2f%2fwww.voanews.com&
   amp;c1=D=g&amp;v1=D=g&amp;events=event1&amp;c7=asia%27s+youngest+nation
   +celebrates+2nd+lgbt+parade++++&amp;v7=D=c7&amp;c16=voa+english&amp;v16
   =D=c16&amp;c5=asia&amp;v5=D=c5&amp;ch=english&amp;v15=D=ch&amp;c15=D=ch
   &amp;c4=article&amp;v4=D=c4&amp;c14=4499246&amp;v14=D=c14&amp;c20=no&am
   p;c17=responsive&amp;v17=D=c17]

Accessibility links

     * Skip to main content
     * Skip to main Navigation
     * Skip to Search

   (Submit) Close (Submit) Previous (Submit) Next
   please wait
   Gallery:

Print Options:

     * [_] Images
     * [_] Multimedia

     * [_] Embedded Content
     * [_] Comments

   (BUTTON) Cancel (BUTTON) Print
   logo logo-print
     *
     *
     *

   Languages
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

     Search ____________________ (Submit) Search

     * Listen
     * Watch

     * Home
     * United States
          + U.S. News
          + US Politics
          + All About America
          + Immigration
          + People in America
     * World
          + U.S. & The Americas
          + Africa
          + East Asia
          + South & Central Asia
          + Europe
          + Middle East
     * Technology
     * Science & Health
     * @VOA STUDENTU
     * VOA News On Iran
     * VOA Connect
     * Login / Register
     * More

     *
          + Latest show
     * More TV
          + OUR BROADCAST PROGRAMS

     * VOA Global English
          + VOA Global English
         Listen live
               o []
                 17:05 - 17:30

LIVE US Government Shutdown/116th Congress Lookahead
          + Upcoming
               o 17:30 - 18:00

US - Saudi Ties
               o 18:00 - 18:05

VOA Newscasts
               o 18:05 - 18:30

Stalemate Remains in Shutdown Talks
     * VOA Africa
          + VOA Africa
         Listen live
               o []

LIVE VOA Africa
          + Upcoming
               o 18:00 - 18:05

VOA Newscasts
               o 22:30 - 23:00

Encounter
               o 23:00 - 23:05

VOA Newscasts
     * VOA1 – The Hits
          + VOA1 – The Hits
         Listen live
               o []

LIVE VOA1 – The Hits
     * VOA Newscasts
          + VOA Newscasts
         Latest program
               o []

VOA Newscasts
          + Upcoming
               o 18:00 - 18:04

VOA Newscasts
               o 19:00 - 19:04

VOA Newscasts
               o 20:00 - 20:04

VOA Newscasts
     * More radio
          + Latest Newscast
          + OUR BROADCAST PROGRAMS
          + Radio Schedule

     Search ____________________ (Submit) Search

   (Submit)
   (Submit)
   Previous Next
   [_] Breaking News

   Previous Next
   [_] Live
     * US Government Shutdown/116th Congress Lookahead
     * VOA Africa
     * VOA1 – The Hits

   East Asia

Asia's Youngest Nation Celebrates 2nd LGBT Parade

   July 25, 2018 11:35 AM
     * Krithika Varagur
     __________________________________________________________________

   FILE - Participants attend the 5th annual LGBT pride parade in Hanoi,
   Vietnam, Aug. 21, 2016. East Timor, Asia's youngest nation, held its
   second LGBT pride parade July 20.
   FILE - Participants attend the 5th annual LGBT pride parade in Hanoi,
   Vietnam, Aug. 21, 2016. East Timor, Asia's youngest nation, held its
   second LGBT pride parade July 20.
   Share
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *


   Asia's Youngest Nation Celebrates 2nd LGBT Parade
   share
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   (Submit) Print
   JAKARTA, INDONESIA —

   Asia's youngest nation, East Timor (Timor-Leste), held its second
   annual LGBT pride parade in its capital, Dili.

   The small country cemented its role as a regional LGBT rights leader
   during a time when that community is under threat in many of its
   neighboring countries, such as Indonesia and Malaysia.

   East Timor's pride campaign is notable for its broad base of support in
   a country of fewer than 1.3 million people. Last year, its prime
   minister, Rui Maria de Araujo, supported the fledgling movement,
   stating that "discrimination, disrespect and abuse toward people,
   because of their sexual orientation or gender identity, does not
   provide any benefit to our nation."

   This year, the campaign started early with a documentary film on LGBT
   acceptance within families that was released in April for an audience
   that included former president and prime minister Xanana Gusmao. It was
   filmed by the community advocacy group Hatutan.

   "Kinship is an important issue for the LGBT community in East Timor
   because it's such a small country," said Dede Oetomo, who founded the
   Indonesian gay rights advocacy group Gaya Nusantara.

   This year's parade, held July 20, had about 1,500 participants — up
   from 500 last year — and had "more participation from LGBT community
   members, especially the transgender and the lesbian community," said
   Natalino Guterres, an activist who spearheaded both parades. "It was
   great to see people of all generations coming to walk together."

   Small but powerful

   Pride 2018 was larger but also more complicated, said Guterres.

   "Last year, people weren't really sure what was going on, but this year
   they knew that it was an LGBTI pride parade. Some opponents are
   becoming more vocal … and some even threaten us by using phrases like
   'trash of the society,'" he said.

   Over the weekend, a local band led LGBT marchers in a traditional
   Timorese resistance song and participants spontaneously held hands,
   danced in a circle, and cried "tears of happiness," Guterres said.

   East Timor became fully independent in 2002, and many citizens still
   have memories of the nationalist struggle against Indonesia. The dance
   circle showed that the movement was "truly Timorese," said Guterres.
   "We showed that we are also a part of this country, and that our
   friends and families are also proud of us to come out to march with us
   in solidarity."

   Guterres was surprised by the turnout, and moved by one visitor in
   particular: his mother. He didn't realize she was there until after the
   fact, when friends informed him that they had seen her.

   "Just last year we had a discussion where [my parents] made me promise
   to be normal,'" he said. "So it was amazing to find out that she also
   went."

   Mixed fortunes

   Oetomo, who advocates for LGBT rights across Southeast Asia, said that
   East Timor activists have quietly been growing a movement for many
   years.

   "In 2002, protection from discrimination based on sexual orientation
   almost made it into the constitution," he said. "Timorese people have
   been freedom fighters, they know how to fight for their rights."

   Plus, said Oetomo, "they don't have the Islam factor, to be frank, like
   we do in Indonesia."
   FILE - A man walks past an anti-LGBT banner with writings that read
   "Indonesia is on LGBT emergency" and "LGBT is a contagious disease,
   save the young generation from LGBT people," outside the headquarters
   of a conservative Islamic group in Jakarta, Indonesia, March 17, 2016.
   FILE - A man walks past an anti-LGBT banner with writings that read
   "Indonesia is on LGBT emergency" and "LGBT is a contagious disease,
   save the young generation from LGBT people," outside the headquarters
   of a conservative Islamic group in Jakarta, Indonesia, March 17, 2016.

   Conservative Muslim groups like the Family Love Alliance and the
   Islamic Defenders Front have petitioned for same-sex intercourse to be
   outlawed and have conducted raids on private establishments,
   respectively.

   "The Catholic Church in Timor has never really opposed LGBT rights the
   way Indonesia's Islamists do," Oetomo said.

   Earlier this month, Human Rights Watch released a landmark report on
   the rapid decline of LGBT rights in Indonesia, East Timor's largest
   neighbor, which occupied the country for 22 years. Indonesian police
   conducted at least six raids on private gatherings that included LGBT
   people in 2016, and apprehended at least 300 LGBT people in 2017,
   according to the report.

   What the report shows, said Human Rights Watch researcher Kyle Knight,
   is how quickly the climate for LGBT rights can change in a nation.

   Before January 2016, "Human rights groups like us would hold up
   Indonesia as an example of pluralism … where governments didn't
   scapegoat and goad people using the LGBT community as a political
   pawn," Knight said. However, that was the month when several prominent
   officials made anti-LGBT remarks, sparking a nationwide moral panic
   that continues to this day. The situation for LGBT Indonesians declined
   precipitously within just two-and-a-half years, he said.

   But there are signs of change. Both Thailand and the Philippines may
   legalize same-sex marriage or partnerships, and LGBT rights are
   flourishing in Vietnam.

   "More and more of what is happening in Timor-Leste will be happening
   around the region," Oetomo said.

   "What Timor-Leste has accomplished is inspiring to all of us," he said.
   "Look, people in my organization are going to save money — in fact
   they've probably already started — and we will go to Dili [Pride] come
   2019!"

Related

     * Hong Kong's Top Court Makes Landmark Ruling in LGBT Rights Case

Hong Kong's Top Court Makes Landmark Ruling in LGBT Rights Case
     * HRW: Indonesia's ‘Unlawful Action’ Contributes to Soaring HIV Rate

HRW: Indonesia's ‘Unlawful Action’ Contributes to Soaring HIV Rate
     * China's Weibo Site Backtracks on Gay Censorship After Outcry

China's Weibo Site Backtracks on Gay Censorship After Outcry

More Asia News

     * FILE - President Donald Trump shakes hands with Kim Yong Chol,
       former North Korean military intelligence chief, after their
       meeting in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, June
       1, 2018. The two also met for talks in Washington on Jan. 18, 201

Trump: US 'Made a Lot of Progress' With N. Korea
     * President Donald Trump.

Trump Says a Deal 'Could Very Well Happen' With China

     *

‘Don’t cry’: Serena Consoles Australian Open Foe; Halep Next
     *

As US-China Relations Cool, Iowa Farmers Hope History With Chinese Preserves
Trade
     *

Australian Minister for Women to Leave Politics at Election

The Day in Photos

     * Palestinian women and youths from the village of Kfar Qaddum, near
       Nablus in the occupied West Bank, scuffle with Israeli soldiers as
       they try to release a youth from their custody, during clashes
       following a weekly demonstration against the expropriation of
       Palestinian lands by Israel.

January 18, 2019

Recommended

     * New slate for Plugged in With Greta Van Susteren

Plugged in with Greta Van Susteren

You may also like

     * FILE -- Riders along the Hollywood Beach Broadwalk, in Florida,
       which was the most popular destination for home buyers who moved
       out of state in 2018. All About America

Where Americans Are Moving
     * Wild Coffee Disappearing, Threatening Future Harvests
       Science & Health

Why Wild Coffee Is Disappearing
     * Jason Spindler joined the Peace Corps after surviving 9/11. He
       later co-founded a company focused on helping businesses in
       developing countries thrive.
       USA

9/11 Survivor Dies in Kenya Terror Attack

   Back to top
     * Follow Us
          +
          +
          +
          +
          +
          +
          +
          +
     * Other Ways to Access VOA
          + Subscribe to our newsletters
          + Subscribe to our podcasts
          + RSS feeds
          + Listen on the radio
          + Get our mobile app
          + Satellite schedule
     * About this site
          + Privacy Notice
          + About VOA
          + VOA Around the World
          + Contact VOA
          + Media Relations
          + Usage Requests
          + VOA Pronunciation Guide
     * Site Map
          + USA
          + Africa
          + East Asia
          + South & Central Asia
          + Europe
          + Middle East
          + Americas
          + Science & Innovation
          + Economy & Business
          + Health
          + Art & Culture
          + Special Reports
          + VOA Programs
          + Videos
          + Blogs
          + Editorials

   XS
   SM
   MD
   LG

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-40.txt>

     * Billionaires
          + All Billionaires
          + World's Billionaires
          + Forbes 400
          + America's Richest Self-Made Women
          + China's Richest
          + India's Richest
          + Indonesia's Richest
          + Korea's Richest
          + Thailand's Richest
          + Japan's Richest
          + Australia's Richest
          + Taiwan's Richest
          + Singapore's Richest
          + Philippines' Richest
          + Hong Kong's Richest
          + Malaysia's Richest
     * Innovation
          + All Innovation
          + AI & Big Data
          + AppDynamics BrandVoice
          + Cloud 100 2018
          + Consumer Tech
          + Cybersecurity
          + Enterprise & Cloud
          + ExtraHop BrandVoice
          + Games
          + Green Tech
          + Healthcare
          + Science
          + Sharing Economy
          + Social Media
          + Venture Capital
          + Japan BrandVoice
          + NVIDIA BrandVoice
          + Oracle BrandVoice
          + SAP BrandVoice
          + ServiceNow BrandVoice
          + Smartsheet BrandVoice
          + CIO Network
     * Leadership
          + All Leadership
          + Careers
          + CMO Network
          + Diversity & Inclusion
          + Education
          + Entrepreneurs
          + ForbesWomen
          + Franchises
          + Leadership Strategy
          + Small Business
          + Under 30
          + Deloitte Brandvoice
          + Workday BrandVoice
     * Money
          + All Money
          + Banking & Insurance
          + Crypto & Blockchain
          + ETFs & Mutual Funds
          + Fintech
          + Hedge Funds & Private Equity
          + Investing
          + Markets
          + Personal Finance
          + Retirement
          + Taxes
          + Capital One BrandVoice
          + Impact Partners BrandVoice
          + Wealth Management
     * Consumer
          + All Consumer
          + Food & Drink
          + Hollywood & Entertainment
          + Media
          + Real Estate
          + Retail
          + SportsMoney
     * Industry
          + All Industry
          + Aerospace & Defense
          + Energy
          + Manufacturing
          + Policy
          + Transportation
          + Mitsubishi Heavy Industries BrandVoice
     * Lifestyle
          + All Lifestyle
          + Arts
          + ForbesLife
          + Vices
          + Boats & Planes
          + Watches & Jewelry
          + Cars & Bikes
          + Travel
          + Forbes Travel Guide
          + Dining & Drinking
          + Cole Haan BrandVoice
     * Featured
          + 30 Under 30 2019
          + 1850 Brand Coffee BrandVoice: Bold Moves
          + Citizens Access BrandVoice: Money Myths: Debunked
          + Drexel University BrandVoice: Relevance Rules
          + Forbes 400
          + Forbes Editors' Picks
          + Forbes Insights: AI
          + Forbes Insights: AI: A CXO Strategy Guide
          + Forbes Video
          + Humanity AI
          + Pivotal Moments: The Making Of A Small Giant
     * BrandVoice
          + AppDynamics
          + Capital One
          + Cole Haan
          + Deloitte
          + ExtraHop
          + Impact Partners
          + Japan
          + Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
          + NVIDIA
          + Oracle
          + SAP
          + ServiceNow
          + Smartsheet
          + Workday
     * Lists

   May 25, 2017, 06:00am

These Asian Countries Are The Most Likely To Follow In Taiwan's LGBT Rights
Footsteps

   Ralph Jennings
   Ralph Jennings Contributor
   Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
     * (Submit) Share to facebook
     * (Submit) Share to twitter
     * (Submit) Share to linkedin

   Same-sex activists hug outside the parliament in Taipei on May 24, 2017
   as they celebrate the landmark decision paving the way for the island
   to become the first place in Asia to legalize gay marriage. (SAM
   YEH/AFP/Getty Images)

   Proponents of legalizing same-sex marriage in Taiwan hope other
   governments in Asia will follow their lead. Taiwan’s Justices of the
   Constitutional Court cited “freedom” and “people’s right to equality”
   when it said Wednesday the law should allow same-sex marriage and told
   parliament to make sure of it. Taiwanese LGBT groups are wondering now
   who else in the region might follow when their homeland officially
   becomes Asia’s first place to allow same-sex marriage.

   "I believe the influence will be quite deep, and we'll see if
   activists in other countries can push their governments, give the
   governments more pressure," said Chien Chih-chieh, secretary general of
   the Taiwan Alliance to Promote Civil Partnership Rights.

   The short answer to who's next: Thailand and maybe Cambodia.

   First let’s look at the rest.

   Authoritarian countries are unlikely to legalize same-sex marriage in
   full because they restrict civic activism that would give rise to an
   LGBT advocacy movement. Those advocates often press governments to
   allow same-sex marriage, if you look at the 20 countries worldwide that
   are OK with it now. Authoritarian states in Asia mean China, Laos,
   North Korea and probably Singapore. Some of those places are socially
   conservative anyway. Vietnam legalized same-sex marriage in 2015 but
   never followed up with enforcement.

   Countries with strong monotheistic religions are also unlikely to
   approve same-sex marriage laws because churches oppose the idea.
   Indonesia and Malaysia, though democratic, live largely by the rules of
   Islam. The same religion anchors much of South Asia and the Middle
   East. About a quarter of South Koreans believe in Christianity of the
   sort that sticks close to the idea of one man, one woman per marriage.
   Despite earlier momentum in the Philippines, President Rodrigo Duterte
   said that as the leader of a largely Catholic country he opposed the
   idea, according to the American advocacy group Human Rights Watch.

   Then there's Japan. Japan lacks a “multicultural” component of its
   democracy, says Jens Damm, associate professor in the Graduate
   Institute of Taiwan Studies at Chang Jung University in Taiwan.
   Taiwan’s LGBT movement took shape in the 1990s as politicians elevated
   the cause of multiple non-mainstream groups as a way of distinguishing
   the island from its political rival China.

   But Thailand once stood a chance of beating Taiwan as the first place
   in Asia with a full-blown same-sex marriage law and someday it might
   take up the cause again.

   Scholars and LGBT activists in the Southeast Asian country known for a
   thriving LGBT scene had drafted legislation five years ago and no
   organized opposition surfaced, the international law firm G.A.M.
   Alliance says on its website. A senior legislator said at the time much
   of the country’s parliament, being mostly older people, was too
   conservative to pass the law. The bill eventually went on hold due to
   political instability, according to the website PinkNews. In theory it
   could resurface. As a possible precursor, Thailand passed the Gender
   Equality Act in 2015 to punish discrimination based on gender identity
   and sexual orientation, the news website says.

   Another likely spot is Thailand’s neighbor Cambodia. The country in
   2011 repealed a constitutional ban on same-sex marriage, and news
   reports say influential authorities including the late king Norodom
   Sihanouk have favored a follow-up law. Still, no one in the Cambodian
   government has made the bold move.
   Ralph Jennings
   Ralph Jennings Contributor

   As a news reporter I have covered some of everything since 1988, from
   my alma mater U.C. Berkeley to the Great Hall of the People in Beijing
   where I followed Communist officials for the Japanese news agency
   Kyodo. Stationed in Taipei since 2006, I track Taiwanese companies ...
   (Submit) Read More
     * Print
     * Site Feedback
     * Tips
     * Corrections
     * Reprints & Permissions
     * Terms
     * Privacy

     * ©2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
     * AdChoices

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-41.txt>

   #alternate alternate

   Homepage

Accessibility links

     * Skip to content
     * Accessibility Help

   BBC Account
   Notifications
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Weather
     * iPlayer
     * Sounds
     * CBBC
     * CBeebies
     * Food
     * Bitesize
     * Earth
     * Arts
     * Make It Digital
     * Taster
     * Local
     * Tomorrow's World
     * TV
     * Radio
     * Menu

   Search
   Search the BBC ____________________ (Submit) Search the BBC
   News

BBC News Navigation

   Sections
     * Home
     * Video
     * World selected
     * UK
     * Business
     * Tech
     * Science
     * Stories
     * Entertainment & Arts
     * Health
     * World News TV
     * In Pictures
     * Reality Check
     * Newsbeat
     * Special Reports
     * Explainers
     * The Reporters
     * Have Your Say

   Asia selected
     * China
     * India selected

   India
   India

India court legalises gay sex in landmark ruling

     * 6 September 2018

     * Share this with Facebook
     * Share this with Messenger
     * Share this with Twitter
     * Share this with Email
     * Share this with Facebook
     * Share this with WhatsApp
     * Share this with Messenger
     * Share this with Twitter
     * Share
       Share this with
       These are external links and will open in a new window
          + Email
            Share this with Email
          + Facebook
            Share this with Facebook
          + Messenger
            Share this with Messenger
          + Messenger
            Share this with Messenger
          + Twitter
            Share this with Twitter
          + Pinterest
            Share this with Pinterest
          + WhatsApp
            Share this with WhatsApp
          + LinkedIn
            Share this with LinkedIn
       Copy this link
       https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-india-45429664
       Read more about sharing.
       These are external links and will open in a new window
       (Submit) Close share panel

   Related Topics
     * Indian gay sex ruling

   [p06kgds5.jpg]
   Media playback is unsupported on your device
   Media caption"I'm finally glad I can say I'm not a criminal in this
   country anymore"

   In a historic decision, India's Supreme Court has ruled that gay sex is
   no longer a criminal offence.

   The ruling overturns a 2013 judgement that upheld a colonial-era law,
   known as section 377, under which gay sex is categorised as an
   "unnatural offence".

   The court has now ruled discrimination on the basis of sexual
   orientation is a fundamental violation of rights.

   Campaigners outside the court cheered and some broke down in tears as
   the ruling was handed down.

   Although public opinion in India's biggest cities has been in favour of
   scrapping the law, there remains strong opposition among religious
   groups and in conservative rural communities.
     * Joy in India as gay sex legalised
     * The privacy case that paved the way
     * How previous ruling shocked the gay community
     * Where is gay sex still against the law?

   But this ruling, from the top court, is the final say in the matter and
   represents a huge victory for India's LGBT community.

   One activist outside the court told the BBC: "I hadn't come out to my
   parents until now. But today, I guess I have."

What have the judges said?

   Thursday's decision was delivered by a five-judge bench headed by
   India's outgoing chief justice Dipak Misra and was unanimous.

   Reading out the judgement, he said: "Criminalising carnal intercourse
   is irrational, arbitrary and manifestly unconstitutional."

   Another judge, Indu Malhotra, said she believed "history owes an
   apology" to LGBT people for ostracising them.

   Justice DY Chandrachud said the state had no right to control the
   private lives of LGBT community members and that the denial of the
   right to sexual orientation was the same as denying the right to
   privacy.

   The ruling effectively allows gay sex among consenting adults in
   private.

What is section 377?

   It is a 157-year-old colonial-era law which criminalises certain sexual
   acts as "unnatural offences" that are punishable by a 10-year jail
   term.
   Image copyright Reuters Image caption A joyful reaction to the ruling
   at an NGO in Mumbai

   The law punishes, in its own words, "carnal intercourse against the
   order of nature with any man, woman or animal".

   While the statute criminalises all anal and oral sex, it has largely
   affected same-sex relationships.

   Human rights groups say police have used the statute to harass and
   abuse members of the LGBT community.
     __________________________________________________________________

'Recognising everyone's right to love'

   Geeta Pandey, BBC News, Delhi

   Even though it was rarely invoked when it involved consenting adults,
   section 377 could be - and was sometimes - used as a tool for
   harassment. It is not surprising then that campaigners are describing
   the verdict as a "new dawn for personal liberty".

   But in a largely conservative India, where leaders of all religions
   have consistently opposed gay sex, it will still be a while before
   attitudes change and the community finds full acceptance.

   But laws almost always play an important role in changing mindsets, and
   by recognising the community's right to love, the Supreme Court has
   restored the dignity denied to them for a very long time.
     __________________________________________________________________

How did we get to this point?

   It's been a tortuous route. A bid to repeal section 377 was initiated
   in 2001 and was batted between court and government until 2009, when
   the Delhi High Court ruled in favour of decriminalisation.
   [p06jxc3t.jpg]
   Media playback is unsupported on your device
   Media captionThe power of "pink money" in India

   Several political, social and religious groups then mobilised to
   restore the law and in 2013 the Supreme Court struck down the High
   Court ruling.

   Anti-section 377 activists then submitted a "curative petition" - a
   formal request to review an earlier court order perceived as a
   "miscarriage of justice" - and in 2016 the Supreme Court decided to
   revisit its ruling.

What has the LGBT reaction been to the latest ruling?

   One of joy given that the community has fought vigorously to strike
   down the law.
   Image copyright AFP Image caption Activists say they are elated at the
   change although more needs to be done

   Equal rights activists had argued that the very existence of such a law
   was proof of discrimination based on sexual orientation.

   LGBT activist Harish Iyer told the BBC: "I'm absolutely elated. It's
   like a second freedom struggle where finally we have thrown a British
   law out of this country... I think the next step would be to get
   anti-discrimination laws in place, or anti-bullying laws."

   Messages of support were posted on Twitter, including from film
   director Karan Johar:
   Skip Twitter post by @karanjohar

     Historical judgment!!!! So proud today! Decriminalising
     homosexuality and abolishing #Section377 is a huge thumbs up for
     humanity and equal rights! The country gets its oxygen back!
     👍👍👍💪💪💪🙏🙏🙏 pic.twitter.com/ZOXwKmKDp5
     — Karan Johar (@karanjohar) September 6, 2018

   Report

   End of Twitter post by @karanjohar

   Journalist Anna MM Vetticad said India had been saved from its shame:
   Skip Twitter post by @annavetticad

     We are witnessing history being made. Hats off to all my #LGBT
     rights activist friends who have battled hard to get here. You have
     saved India from the shame of being one of the remaining countries
     in the world that criminalises #homosexuality - thank you for that.
     #Section377
     — Anna MM Vetticad (@annavetticad) September 6, 2018

   Report

   End of Twitter post by @annavetticad

How have political parties reacted?

   The governing BJP party has said it would leave the decision to the
   Supreme Court.

   However, one of its members said he was disappointed with the verdict.

   Subramanian Swamy, known for making provocative comments, said: "It
   could give rise to an increase in the number of HIV cases."

   Meanwhile, the main opposition Congress party has welcomed the ruling,
   saying they "hope this is the beginning of a more equal and inclusive
   society".

   The UN has also welcomed the ruling, saying "sexual orientation and
   gender expression form an integral part of an individual's identity the
   world over".

What else was said in the ruling?

   The court said other aspects of section 377 dealing with unnatural sex
   with animals and children would remain in force.

   The judges also explicitly said that they only ruled on the
   constitutional validity of section 377 and were not looking at it in
   terms of other rights such as those related to marriage or inheritance.

   It remains too early to say what this will translate to in the longer
   term.

   Author and commentator Sandip Roy told the BBC that although the ruling
   was a cause for celebration, there were still hurdles to overcome, and
   a need for anti-discrimination laws.

   "I think we would be foolish to think that this is the end of the
   fight," he said.

Where is homosexuality illegal?

   The 2017 report from the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans
   and Intersex Association (Ilga) lists 72 countries and territories
   where same-sex relationships are still criminalised, although that
   includes India before its latest ruling.

   Most of them are in Africa, the Middle East and other parts of south
   Asia.

   The report said homosexuality could still result in the death penalty
   in eight nations.

Related Topics

     * Homosexuality in India
     * India
     * LGBT
     * Indian gay sex ruling

Share this story About sharing

     * Email
     * Facebook
     * Messenger
     * Messenger
     * Twitter
     * Pinterest
     * WhatsApp
     * LinkedIn

More on this story

     * Where is gay sex still outlawed?
       6 September 2018
     * Joy in India after landmark ruling legalises gay sex
       6 September 2018
     * Video 'I'm not a criminal anymore'
       6 September 2018
     * How significant is India's landmark privacy judgement?
       24 August 2017

Top Stories

   Trump in 'compromise' to end shutdown

   His plan includes a concession on so-called Dreamer immigrants but
   Democrats have already rejected it.
   19 January 2019
   Deaths in Mexico pipeline blast rise to 66
   19 January 2019
   Funeral of Gdansk mayor draws thousands
   19 January 2019

Features

'Why I wanted a tattoo on my mastectomy scar'

Perfect 10: My 'crazy' week as a viral hit

How far do free speech protections go in the US?

The most expensive fuel in the world?

Medics on the frontline in Sudan: One doctor speaks

Tough times for Amsterdam sex business

Trump's tower in Moscow that never was

   Video

Rent-a-sister: Coaxing Japan’s young men out of their rooms

What the world's #10YearChallenge looks like

Elsewhere on the BBC

Lyrics quiz

   Have you been getting these songs wrong?
   Full article Lyrics quiz

Feeling hot

   What happens to your body in extreme heat?
   Full article Feeling hot
   Why you can trust BBC News

BBC News Navigation

   Asia Sections
     * Asia
     * China
     * India selected

     * Home
     * Video
     * World selected
          + World Home
          + Africa
          + Asia selected
          + Australia
          + Europe
          + Latin America
          + Middle East
          + US & Canada
     * UK
          + UK Home
          + England
          + N. Ireland
          + Scotland
          + Wales
          + Politics
     * Business
          + Business Home
          + Market Data
          + Global Trade
          + Companies
          + Entrepreneurship
          + Technology of Business
          + Connected World
          + Global Education
          + Economy
     * Tech
     * Science
     * Stories
     * Entertainment & Arts
     * Health
     * World News TV
     * In Pictures
     * Reality Check
     * Newsbeat
     * Special Reports
     * Explainers
     * The Reporters
     * Have Your Say

BBC News Services

     * On your mobile
     * On your connected tv
     * Get news alerts
     * Contact BBC News

Explore the BBC

     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Weather
     * iPlayer
     * Sounds
     * CBBC
     * CBeebies
     * Food
     * Bitesize
     * Earth
     * Arts
     * Make It Digital
     * Taster
     * Local
     * Tomorrow's World
     * TV
     * Radio

     * Terms of Use
     * About the BBC
     * Privacy Policy
     * Cookies
     * Accessibility Help
     * Parental Guidance
     * Contact the BBC
     * Get Personalised Newsletters

   Copyright © 2019 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of
   external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-42.txt>

                                403 Forbidden
     __________________________________________________________________

                                    nginx

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-43.txt>

   #search

     * (BUTTON)
     * Latest
          +
          +
          +
          +
     * Obsessions

These are the core obsessions that drive our newsroom—defining topics of
seismic importance to the global economy.
          +
          +
          +
          +
     * Featured
          +
          +
          +
          +
     *
     * Emails

Our emails are made to shine in your inbox, with something fresh every
morning, afternoon, and weekend.
          +
          +
          +
          +
     * Editions

Quartz is a guide to the new global economy for people excited by change.
          +

Quartz Africa
            The important stories of innovation across the continent’s
            wide-ranging economies
          +

Quartz India
            In-depth coverage of the world’s largest democracy for India
            and its far-flung diaspora
          +

Quartzy
            Lifestyle, culture, and living well in the new global economy
          +

Quartz at Work
            Management news, advice, and ideas for business leaders
          +

Atlas
            Create, share, and discover charts, using the same tools as
            the Quartz newsroom
     * Become a member
     * (BUTTON)

   EPA-EFE/David Chang
   ICYMI.
   PROGRESS

Asia made big strides in LGBT rights in 2017

   By Isabella StegerDecember 29, 2017

   In the end, Australia pipped Taiwan at the post to legalizing same-sex
   marriage, in a year of major achievements for LGBT rights in the
   Asia-Pacific region. Here’s a recap of the big and little steps forward
   that 2017 ushered in.

Taiwan

   For much of the year, Taiwan looked set to win the accolade of becoming
   the first country in Asia to make marriage equality a reality, after
   its top court ruled in May that the existing law that bans same-sex
   marriage is unconstitutional, and must be amended within two years. But
   progress on enshrining same-sex marriage in law in Taiwan has stalled,
   despite a pledge by its premier that the executive branch of government
   would send a same-sex marriage bill to the legislature in the current
   session, which is closing shortly. Meanwhile the backlog of same-sex
   marriage applications continues to pile up.

   Lawmaker Jason Hsu, a vocal proponent of marriage equality, said that
   with local elections slated for late 2018, it’s likely that no same-sex
   marriage bill will pass until early 2019, as a substantial portion of
   society still remains opposed to it. Nevertheless, Taipei continues to
   be the center of LGBT life in Asia, with its annual pride parade
   attracting record attendance—more than 100,000 people—from all around
   the region this year. And businesses are ready to welcome the a new set
   of wedding clients.
   Reuters/Mick Tsikas
   Two bride figurines adorn the top of a wedding cake for a 2009 ceremony
   to protest Australian lawmakers’ failure to end the gay marriage ban.

Australia

   In that time, Australia—which had stood out conspicuously as a Western
   democracy that still had not legalized gay marriage—finally moved on
   the issue after mounting pressure from advocacy groups, liberal
   politicians, and companies. A majority of Australians had been in
   support of gay marriage, but the issue had been held hostage by
   conservative forces in the political arena in Canberra. Prime minister
   Malcolm Turnbull, himself a supporter of marriage equality, agreed to
   hold a non-binding referendum on the issue via a postal ballot. Less
   than a month after the results re-affirmed majority support for
   marriage equality, parliament passed a bill legalizing same-sex
   marriage. The first gay marriages took place the same week after two
   lesbian couples were granted an exemption from the normal 30-day
   waiting period to marry. Other same-sex couples who’ve filed to marry
   could be celebrating as soon as the first week of 2018.

Japan

   Six local governments (paywall) in Japan now recognize same-sex
   partnerships, which ensures that gay couples are entitled to the same
   local benefits as heterosexual couples. The northern city of Sapporo
   became the first major city in Japan to recognize same-sex couples in
   June. Shibuya and Setagaya wards in Tokyo certified same-sex
   partnerships in 2015, followed by the municipalities of Iga, Naha, and
   Takarazuka last year.

   Even as Japan’s political classes and society at large remain
   conservative—Japan’s only openly gay lawmaker said that legalizing gay
   marriage on a national level is still years away from becoming
   reality—it’s clear that such attitudes are increasingly at odds with
   Japan’s youth. A video of a New Zealand lawmaker who made a speech on
   marriage equality in parliament went viral in Japan in response to
   comments made by a member of Japan’s ruling party who said that gay
   couples would not be welcome to attend banquets at the imperial palace.
   Japan’s conservative stance on LGBT rights will also increasingly come
   under the spotlight as the country tries to showcase itself as a
   welcoming and diverse destination as it tries to attract more skilled
   foreign workers to live and work there.

Hong Kong

   Hong Kong, one of the world’s major financial centers and home to many
   foreign workers, has for years seen little progress on the LGBT front
   despite growing calls from civil society and the private sector to
   improve rights for sexual minorities. Still, two legal challenges
   offered some hope in 2017. In April, a court found that the partner of
   a Hong Kong civil servant—the two had married overseas—was entitled to
   the same benefits as a heterosexual spouse. The hearings in the Hong
   Kong government’s appeal against the decision began this month.

   Then, in September, a court ruled in favor of a lesbian expatriate
   couple seeking to be treated on par with heterosexual couples by the
   immigration department. The Hong Kong government is seeking to appeal
   that decision too and if it is allowed, that could be heard next year
   or in 2019. In the meantime, according to the law firm that represented
   the British couple, “the law in Hong Kong now is that foreign
   registered same-sex marriages and civil partnerships shall be
   recognised by the Immigration Department for dependant visa purposes.”
   Since the legal situation is in flux, it’s not clear that same-sex
   married couples can actually count on that for the moment.

China

   How Hwee Young/EPA
   Aboard the Glory Sea cruise, organized in June by a prominent Chinese
   LGBT group.

   Amid a worsening crackdown on civil society groups in mainland China,
   there was little substantial progress on the LGBT front—indeed, in the
   months leading up to a crucial Communist Party meeting in October, a
   number of events hosted by LGBT groups were forced by authorities to be
   canceled. Given the climate, one prominent gay rights organization
   decided to rent a cruise ship to hold a major annual gathering.
   Nevertheless, society is becoming more accepting of LGBT people,
   particularly in cities. “Signals from the state are fragmented and
   contradictory. Regardless, society is rapidly becoming more open
   and—even despite setbacks—the LGBT community is becoming increasingly
   visible,” said Darius Longarino, senior fellow at Yale Law School’s
   Paul Tsai China Center.
   ____________________

Tags

   Japan, qzasia, gay marriage, marriage equality, lgbt rights
   Created with Sketch.LatestCreated with Sketch.FeaturedCreated with
   Sketch.ObsessionsCreated with Sketch.EmailsEditions
   (BUTTON) Close

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MRD738C

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-44.txt>

   #alternate alternate alternate alternate publisher alternate


   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   Breaking News
   World+
   U.S.AfricaAmericasAsiaAustraliaChinaEuropeMiddle EastUK
   WorldU.S. PoliticsBusinessEntertainmentSportTravelStyleHealthVideo
   Live TV
   ____________________ (Submit) Search »
   International Edition+
   U.S.
   International
   Arabic
   Español

   Set edition preference:
   (_) U.S. (_) International (Submit) Confirm
   International Edition+
   U.S.
   International
   Arabic
   Español

   Set edition preference:
   (_) U.S. (_) International (Submit) Confirm
   Home

   World
     * U.S.
     * Africa
     * Americas
     * Asia
     * Australia
     * China
     * Europe
     * Middle East
     * UK

   U.S. Politics
     * 45
     * Congress
     * Supreme Court
     * 2018 Election Results

   Business
     * Markets
     * Tech
     * Media
     * Success
     * Perspectives
     * Video

   [menu_entertainment.png]
     * Stars
     * Screen
     * Binge
     * Culture
     * Media

   Tech
     * Innovate
     * Gadget
     * Mission: Ahead
     * Upstarts
     * Work Transformed
     * Innovative Cities

   Sport
     * Football
     * Tennis
     * Equestrian
     * Golf
     * Skiing
     * Horse Racing
     * Motorsport
     * Sailing
     * Rugby

   [menu_travel.png]
     * Destinations
     * Food & Drink
     * Play
     * Stay
     * Videos

   [menu_style_new.png]
     * Arts
     * Design
     * Fashion
     * Architecture
     * Luxury
     * Autos
     * Video

   [menu_health.png]
     * Food
     * Fitness
     * Wellness
     * Parenting
     * Live Longer

   Features
     * Freedom Project
     * Impact Your World
     * Inside Africa
     * 2 degrees
     * CNN Heroes
     * All Features

   Video
     * Video news
     * Feature shows
     * HLN
     * TV shows
     * TV schedule
     * Faces of CNN Worldwide
     * CNNVR

   [vr_new_asset.png]
     * How To Watch VR
     * Archives

   More…
     * Weather
     * CNN Profiles
     * Leadership
     * Pressroom
     * Partner sites
     * Work for CNN

   [logo_cnn_nav_bottom.png] U.S.
   [logo_cnn_nav_bottom.png] International
   [logo_cnn_espaniol.png] Español
   [logo_cnn_arabic.png] Arabic

   Set edition preference:
   (_) U.S. (_) International (Submit) Confirm
   FacebookTwitterInstagram

   ____________________

India's top court decriminalizes gay sex in landmark ruling

   By Manveena Suri, CNN

   Updated 1305 GMT (2105 HKT) September 6, 2018

   Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the
   world as it unfolds.
   ____________________
   India's top court decriminalizes gay sex.
   India's top court decriminalizes gay sex.
    JUST WATCHED
    India's top court decriminalizes gay sex.

   Replay
   More Videos ...

MUST WATCH

(17 Videos)

   Indian supporters of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT)
   community hold placards as they participate in a pride parade in
   Chennai on June 24, 2018. (Photo by ARUN SANKAR / AFP) (Photo credit
   should read ARUN SANKAR/AFP/Getty Images)
   Indian supporters of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT)
   community hold placards as they participate in a pride parade in
   Chennai on June 24, 2018. (Photo by ARUN SANKAR / AFP) (Photo credit
   should read ARUN SANKAR/AFP/Getty Images)

India's top court decriminalizes gay sex

   People participate in the San Francisco Pride parade in San Francisco,
   California on June 25, 2017. / AFP PHOTO / Josh Edelson (Photo credit
   should read JOSH EDELSON/AFP/Getty Images)
   People participate in the San Francisco Pride parade in San Francisco,
   California on June 25, 2017. / AFP PHOTO / Josh Edelson (Photo credit
   should read JOSH EDELSON/AFP/Getty Images)

Cities celebrate Gay Pride Month

ESPN Body Issue features same-sex couple

   Queer Eye Van Ness Emmy Reaction Orig Vstan BDK_00001127
   Queer Eye Van Ness Emmy Reaction Orig Vstan BDK_00001127

'Queer Eye' star's emotional Emmy reaction

   A &quot;Vote Yes&quot; banner in support of same sex-marriage hangs on
   a street in Sydney on September 5, 2017. Same-sex marriage advocates
   launched legal action in Australia&#39;s highest court on September 5,
   2017 against a controversial government plan for a postal vote on the
   issue, calling it divisive and harmful. / AFP PHOTO / PETER PARKS
   (Photo credit should read PETER PARKS/AFP/Getty Images)
   A &quot;Vote Yes&quot; banner in support of same sex-marriage hangs on
   a street in Sydney on September 5, 2017. Same-sex marriage advocates
   launched legal action in Australia&#39;s highest court on September 5,
   2017 against a controversial government plan for a postal vote on the
   issue, calling it divisive and harmful. / AFP PHOTO / PETER PARKS
   (Photo credit should read PETER PARKS/AFP/Getty Images)

Australia to vote on same-sex marriage

   ISTANBUL, TURKEY - JUNE 25: A woman is arrested by police after
   gathering to support the LGBT Pride March on June 25, 2017 in Istanbul,
   Turkey. The 2017 LGBT Pride March was banned by authorities for the
   third year. Organisers defied the order and people attempted to march
   to Taksim Square but were met by a heavy police presence and the crowd
   was dispersed by tear gas and several people were arrested. (Photo by
   Chris McGrath/Getty Images)
   ISTANBUL, TURKEY - JUNE 25: A woman is arrested by police after
   gathering to support the LGBT Pride March on June 25, 2017 in Istanbul,
   Turkey. The 2017 LGBT Pride March was banned by authorities for the
   third year. Organisers defied the order and people attempted to march
   to Taksim Square but were met by a heavy police presence and the crowd
   was dispersed by tear gas and several people were arrested. (Photo by
   Chris McGrath/Getty Images)

Gay pride parade obstructed by Turkish police

   ian mckellen amanpour gay rights_00052301.jpg
   ian mckellen amanpour gay rights_00052301.jpg

Ian McKellen on coming out and being knighted

   north carolina roy cooper bathroom bill repeal sot_00003518.jpg
   north carolina roy cooper bathroom bill repeal sot_00003518.jpg

North Carolina repeals bathroom law

   Attendees of the Equality March pass by the White House
   Attendees of the Equality March pass by the White House

Equality marchers push for progress on LGBT rights

   Same-sex activists hug outside the parliament in Taipei on May 24, 2017
   as they celebrate the landmark decision paving the way for the island
   to become the first place in Asia to legalise gay marriage. Crowds of
   pro-gay marriage supporters in Taiwan on May 24 cheered, hugged and
   wept as a top court ruled in favour of same-sex unions. / AFP PHOTO /
   SAM YEH (Photo credit should read SAM YEH/AFP/Getty Images)
   Same-sex activists hug outside the parliament in Taipei on May 24, 2017
   as they celebrate the landmark decision paving the way for the island
   to become the first place in Asia to legalise gay marriage. Crowds of
   pro-gay marriage supporters in Taiwan on May 24 cheered, hugged and
   wept as a top court ruled in favour of same-sex unions. / AFP PHOTO /
   SAM YEH (Photo credit should read SAM YEH/AFP/Getty Images)

Taiwan moves closer to legalizing gay marriage

Gay men tell of brutality in Chechnya

   North Carolina gender bathrooms bill pkg_00002112.jpg
   North Carolina gender bathrooms bill pkg_00002112.jpg

What is HB2?

   public bathroom controversy history nws orig_00002429.jpg
   public bathroom controversy history nws orig_00002429.jpg

It's not the first time toilets have divided America

Trump on SCOTUS: I'm fine with same-sex marriage

   transgender student bathroom support rally dnt_00011714.jpg
   transgender student bathroom support rally dnt_00011714.jpg

Crowd rallies in support of transgender student

   battle over religious freedom laws nick valencia lead dnt_00001926.jpg
   battle over religious freedom laws nick valencia lead dnt_00001926.jpg

Tenn. bill would allow therapists to deny LGBT patients

   china gay marriage rivers lklv _00002407.jpg
   china gay marriage rivers lklv _00002407.jpg

Chinese court dismisses same-sex marriage lawsuit

   New Delhi (CNN)India's Supreme Court has struck down a colonial-era law
   criminalizing consensual gay sex, overturning more than 150 years of
   anti-LGBT legislation.
   The court announced the landmark verdict in Delhi on Thursday, as
   jubilant crowds cheered and rights activists hugged one another,
   overcome with emotion.
   Section 377, an archaic law imposed during British rule that penalized
   intercourse "against the order of nature," had carried a maximum
   sentence of life imprisonment.

   The decision to repeal the law is a major victory for India's LGBT
   activists and supporters after years of determined struggle.
   Crowds in Mumbai cheer the Supreme Court announcement.
   Crowds in Mumbai cheer the Supreme Court announcement.
   Crowds in Mumbai cheer the Supreme Court announcement.
   "I can't even explain how I am feeling right now. The long battle has
   been won. Finally we have been recognized by this country," said
   Bismaya Kumar Raula, wiping away tears outside the court.
   Read More
   Others gathered said that, while they had anticipated a positive
   outcome, the result still came as a shock.

     India's top court agrees #Section377Verdict
     pic.twitter.com/ylHBnPnMZj
     — Nikhil Kumar (@nkreports) September 6, 2018

   "It's an emotional day for me. It's a mix of feelings, it's been a long
   fight," said rights campaigner Rituparna Borah. "There was not enough
   media or society support earlier but we have it now. People will not be
   seen as criminals anymore."
   Though the law was rarely enforced in full, lawyers argued that it
   helped perpetuate a culture of fear and repression within the LGBT
   community.
   A change in legislation will "create a space of freedom where you can
   start expecting justice," Danish Sheikh, a law professor at Jindal
   Global Law School and LGBT advocate, told CNN.
   Indian LGBT activists in Mumbai react to the news that the Supreme
   Court has struck down Section 377.
   Indian LGBT activists in Mumbai react to the news that the Supreme
   Court has struck down Section 377.
   Indian LGBT activists in Mumbai react to the news that the Supreme
   Court has struck down Section 377.

Long battle

   Thursday's historic ruling is the culmination of a lengthy and often
   fraught legal battle for equality in a country where homosexuality
   remains taboo.
   In 2009, the Delhi High Court ruled that the ban on consensual gay sex
   violated fundamental rights. The decision, which only applied to the
   Delhi region, was quickly overruled by the Supreme Court in 2013,
   following a petition launched by a loose coalition of Christian, Hindu
   and Muslim groups.
   In its 2013 ruling, the Supreme Court said that only a "minuscule
   fraction of the country's population constitute lesbians, gays,
   bisexuals or transgenders" and it was therefore "legally unsustainable"
   to repeal the act.
   During the latest hearings, lawyers representing more than a dozen gay
   and lesbian Indians questioned the constitutional basis of that earlier
   ruling.
   LGBT Indians gear up for possible U-turn on anti-gay laws
   LGBT Indians gear up for possible U-turn on anti-gay laws
   LGBT Indians gear up for possible U-turn on anti-gay laws
   "It was a wrong judgment. It was not legal and it was based wrongly on
   the tenets of the constitution," said Colin Gonsalves, one of the
   lawyers representing the current group of petitioners.
   That case was strengthened last year, when the Supreme Court moved to
   uphold the constitutional right to privacy.
   The ruling, which declared sexual orientation to be an "essential
   attribute of privacy," helped galvanize campaigners.
   "Last year's ruling eviscerated the 2013 judgment," said Gonsalves.
   "There is no issue now. There is not much left to argue," he added.

     What a historic day for the country! 🏳️‍🌈 #Section377
     pic.twitter.com/Xx8C13wEap
     — Anna Isaac (@anna_isaac) September 6, 2018

   Opposition to moves to overturn Section 377 had rested predominately on
   religious and moral objections. In an interview earlier this year,
   lawmaker Subramanian Swamy, a prominent member of the ruling Bharatiya
   Janata Party (BJP), described the legalization of gay sex as a "danger
   to national security" and "against Hindutva."
   Hinduism has traditionally maintained a flexible, non-prescriptive view
   of sexuality. However, in recent years hardline Hindu groups have taken
   a more conservative approach.
   In the run up to the judgment, the BJP refrained from taking a public
   stand, deferring instead to the court.

Dehumanizing colonial law

   Out of the estimated 48 former British colonies that criminalize
   homosexuality, 30 still have laws based on the original colonial
   anti-LGBT legislation, according to Lucas Mendos, co-author of the 2017
   International LGBTI Association "State-Sponsored Homophobia" report.
   In the case of India, the original British law had remained in place
   more or less unchanged since it was introduced by British colonizers in
   the 1860s.
   According to India's National Record Bureau, more than 2,100 cases were
   registered under the law in 2016. India did not maintain a separate
   database of prosecution under section 377 until 2014.
   Arif Jafar, one of the current group of petitioners whose case the
   Supreme Court ruled on, was arrested in 2001 under Section 377 and
   spent 49 days in jail.
   Supporters in Mumbai react to the Supreme Court ruling that gay sex is
   no longer a criminal offense.
   Supporters in Mumbai react to the Supreme Court ruling that gay sex is
   no longer a criminal offense.
   Supporters in Mumbai react to the Supreme Court ruling that gay sex is
   no longer a criminal offense.
   Jafar now runs an informal support group in the northern state of Uttar
   Pradesh. The group, named "Trust," provides counseling, support and
   sexual health services to gay and transgender persons.
   In his petition, Jafar described the experience as dehumanizing and a
   violation of his fundamental rights. He also alleged that he was beaten
   and humiliated every day because of his sexuality.
   Campaigners in India pointed out that the law didn't only trap members
   of the LGBT community in the closet, it also invited other forms of
   discrimination, providing a cover for blackmail and harassment.
   Members of India&#39;s LGBT community dance in celebration after the
   ruling was announced in Bangalore on Thursday.
   Members of India&#39;s LGBT community dance in celebration after the
   ruling was announced in Bangalore on Thursday.
   Members of India's LGBT community dance in celebration after the ruling
   was announced in Bangalore on Thursday.
   "The constant fear of 377 we have felt will not be there for the coming
   generation," said Yashwinder Singh, of Mumbai-based LGBT rights group
   The Humsafar Trust.
   "Laws getting passed is one thing but changing the society is a big
   challenge," said Singh of the court's decision, Thursday.
   "Our work has started multifold now. We have to go and talk to people
   and change their mindset so that they accept every human as one."

     We join the people of India & the LGBTQIA+ community in their
     victory over prejudice. We welcome the progressive & decisive
     verdict from the Supreme Court & hope this is the beginning of a
     more equal & inclusive society. #Section377
     pic.twitter.com/Fh65vOn7h9
     — Congress (@INCIndia) September 6, 2018

   Following the announcement Thursday, the Congress Party, the country's
   main opposition, posted a message of congratulations on social media,
   welcoming the "progressive and decisive verdict" from the Supreme
   Court.
   As supporters celebrate the decision, activists will now be shifting
   focus to the broader issue of equality.
   People celebrate the decision in Bangalore on September 6.
   People celebrate the decision in Bangalore on September 6.
   People celebrate the decision in Bangalore on September 6.

   "The next step is to start looking at issues of rights. Right now, it
   is just decriminalizing," Anjali Gopalan, founder of the Naz
   Foundation, which has spearheaded the fight against Section 377, told
   CNN.
   "The right that every citizen of the country should have access to and
   should not be taken for granted. Like the right to marry, the right to
   adopt, the right to inherit. Things that no one questions and that are
   clearly denied to a certain section of citizens."

   CNN's Ben Westcott and Swati Gupta contributed to this report.
     *

   ____________________
     *

     *

     *

     *

     *

     *

   ____________________ (Submit)

    1. Home

    1. World
         1. U.S.
         2. Africa
         3. Americas
         4. Asia
         5. Australia
         6. China
         7. Europe
         8. Middle East
         9. UK

    1. U.S. Politics
         1. 45
         2. Congress
         3. Supreme Court
         4. 2018 Election Results

    1. Business
         1. Markets
         2. Tech
         3. Media
         4. Success
         5. Perspectives
         6. Video

    1. [menu_entertainment.png]
         1. Stars
         2. Screen
         3. Binge
         4. Culture
         5. Media

    1. Tech
         1. Innovate
         2. Gadget
         3. Mission: Ahead
         4. Upstarts
         5. Work Transformed
         6. Innovative Cities

    1. Sport
         1. Football
         2. Tennis
         3. Equestrian
         4. Golf
         5. Skiing
         6. Horse Racing
         7. Motorsport
         8. Sailing
         9. Rugby

    1. [menu_travel.png]
         1. Destinations
         2. Food & Drink
         3. Play
         4. Stay
         5. Videos

    1. [menu_style_new.png]
         1. Arts
         2. Design
         3. Fashion
         4. Architecture
         5. Luxury
         6. Autos
         7. Video

    1. [menu_health.png]
         1. Food
         2. Fitness
         3. Wellness
         4. Parenting
         5. Live Longer

    1. Features
         1. Freedom Project
         2. Impact Your World
         3. Inside Africa
         4. 2 degrees
         5. CNN Heroes
         6. All Features

    1. Video
         1. Video news
         2. Feature shows
         3. HLN
         4. TV shows
         5. TV schedule
         6. Faces of CNN Worldwide
         7. CNNVR

    1. [vr_new_asset.png]
         1. How To Watch VR
         2. Archives

    1. More…
         1. Weather
         2. CNN Profiles
         3. Leadership
         4. Pressroom
         5. Partner sites
         6. Work for CNN

   International Edition
     * Set edition preference:
     * (_) U.S.
     * (_) International
     * (Submit) Confirm
     * U.S.
     * International
     * Arabic
     * Español

   © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.
   All Rights Reserved.
   CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.
     * Terms of Use
     * Privacy Policy
     * Accessibility & CC
     * AdChoices
     * MSA Statement
     * Advertise with us
     * About us
     * CNN Store
     * Newsletters
     * Transcripts
     * License Footage
     * CNN Newsource

   Quantcast

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-45.txt>

     * News
     * Nightly News
     * Meet the Press
     * Dateline
     * MSNBC
     * TODAY

   (Submit)
   (Submit)
   Search
   ____________________ (Submit)
   Sponsored By
     * Politics
     * Shutdown
     * U.S. News
     * Business
     * World
     * Tech & Media
     * THINK
     * Sports

   [_]
     * Share this —
     *
     *
     *
     *

   (Submit)

OUT Politics and Policy

Thousands of Chinese activists renew push for same-sex marriage

   Unlike neighboring Taiwan, whose recent decision to give gay couples
   marriage rights gave a boost to the LGBTQ movement across Asia, China
   has not budged.
   A man walks past a poster of a rainbow flag outside the Canadian
   embassy in Beijing on May 18, 2018.
   A man walks past a poster of a rainbow flag outside the Canadian
   embassy in Beijing on May 18, 2018.Greg Baker / AFP - Getty Images file
   Sep. 14, 2018, 3:30 PM GMT
   By Reuters

   BEIJING - Chinese activists are rallying in the thousands to renew a
   push for same-sex marriage, making use of a rare window of opportunity
   to suggest revisions to a draft piece of legislation to include legal
   protections for the gay community.

   After decades of Communist prudery about sex of all kinds, lesbian,
   gay, bisexual and transgender Chinese have in recent years been openly
   tackling bureaucracy, legal uncertainty and entrenched social norms to
   assert their place in society.

   But unlike neighboring, democratic Taiwan, whose decision last year to
   give same-sex couples the right to marry gave a boost to the gay rights
   movement across Asia, China has not budged.

   Two years after a Chinese court rejected his application to be legally
   married, Sun Wenlin is trying to galvanize the LGBTQ community by
   asking people to propose amendments to a draft civil code en masse.

   The code, a piece of landmark legislation expected to be passed in
   2020, was released last week by China’s parliament for two months of
   public comment.

   The code makes changes on issues including sexual harassment, divorce
   and family planning, but does not further the rights of the LGBTQ
   community, Sun told Reuters.

   Earlier this week, Sun posted on his WeChat account a guide for how to
   submit revisions to write the legalization for same-sex marriage into
   the code.

Related

   NBC OUT

Most Singaporeans still support law banning gay sex, survey finds

   Sun’s post went viral and started trending on the Twitter-like Weibo,
   with related hashtags being viewed 50 million times. Signatories to
   Sun’s campaign for same-sex marriage legalization, launched last year,
   jumped from around 5,000 to over 20,000 in a day, he said.

   “I did not want to be reconciled to watching this law sit there
   silently without anyone paying attention,” he said.

   “We don’t know how long we would have to wait for the next change to
   submit opinions on the civil code.”

   The chance that suggested revisions to dozens of provisions will be
   accepted is “close to zero,” Sun said, but he is hopeful that
   discussion can push forward legal recognition.

   The civil code drafting process can help protect LGBTQ rights in areas
   like childbirth and employment, according to Zhu Bao, a Beijing-based
   lawyer.

   “Discussion of the provisions that have an impact on the legitimate
   interests of the community will make lawmakers face up to the existence
   of gender minorities,” he said.

Related

   NBC OUT

India strikes down law that punished gay sex with 10 years in prison

   Reuters was unable to locate contact details for parliament’s Standing
   Committee, which is in charge of legislation.

   Individual legislators have occasionally in recent years proposed
   legislation during China’s annual meeting of parliament in March to
   legalize same-sex marriage, without success.

   Despite thriving gay scenes in many big cities and growing awareness of
   LGBTQ issues, the community has repeatedly had to face-off with China’s
   censors in recent months. There are no laws against same-sex relations
   in China.

   A ban — then reversal — of LGBTQ content by Weibo in April, followed by
   censoring of gay-themed content during the Eurovision Song Contest in
   May, have fueled fears of a growing intolerance.

   FOLLOW NBC OUT ON TWITTER, FACEBOOK & INSTAGRAM
     * About
     * Contact
     * Careers
     * Privacy policy
     * Terms of Service
     * SiteMap
     * Advertise
     * AdChoices

   © 2019 NBC UNIVERSAL
     *
     *
     *

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-48.txt>

   Amnesty International UK
   Amnesty International UK
   Amnesty International UK
   Login Search Menu
     * Home
     * Campaigns
     * Get Involved
     * Join
     * Donate

   ____________________ Search
   Log in Register
   (Submit) Accessibility

   This site uses cookies to help improve your online experience. Find out
   more
   (Submit)
     * Amnesty International UK

   LGBTI rights
   Amnesty International UK

Mapping anti-gay laws in Africa

   31 May 2018, 02:48pm

     Click on the image to view a large version of the map

Tightening laws and increasing punishments

   Legal rights are diminishing for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender
   and intersex (LGBTI) people across the African continent.

Uganda

   It's already illegal to be gay in Uganda. If you're found to have had a
   same-sex relationship, you can expect to spend seven years in prison.
   But Uganda's anti-gay laws have become even harsher.

   In December 2013, the notorious Anti-Homosexuality Bill was passed by
   Uganda's Parliament. It has lengthened sentences for consensual
   homosexual sex, and extended punishments to those 'promoting'
   homosexuality.

Nigeria

   Nigeria already outlaws same-sex relationships. But the conditions of
   imprisonment have become wider, and the punishment much harsher, when
   Nigeria's President passed amendments to existing laws in January 2014.

But there are some rays of light...

   Mozambique recently removed the Portuguese colonial-era laws that
   criminalised homosexual behavoir, removing a clause that outlawed
   'vices against nature'.

   But that's only the first step in a long fight for full equality in the
   country. The organisation that successfully lobbied the authorities
   tomake the change, Lambda, is still not officially recognised as an
   NGO.

Illegal or legal? Breaking it down by country

Death penalty

   Mauritania, Sudan, Northern Nigeria, Southern Somalia

Illegal

   Algeria, Angola, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Comoros, Egypt, Eritrea,
   Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Kenya, Liberia, Libya, Malawi,
   Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Namibia, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra
   Leone, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia,
   Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe

Legal

   Benin, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
   Congo-Brazzaville, Ivory Coast, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti,
   Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Guinea-Bissau, Lesotho, Madagascar, Mali,
   Mozambique, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Seychelles, South
   Africa.
   31 May 2018, 02:48pm

Share

Tags

     * LGBTI

   View all tags

Related

     * Blog - A life sentence for saying 'I love you'

Receive urgent actions to Your phone

   Text PROTEST + your full name to 70505

   Join our email list ____________________ (Submit) Sign up

   We'll send you regular emails about our campaigns, fundraising appeals,
   events and the impact we have together. You can unsubscribe at any
   time.*
   Email address*
   ____________________________________________________________
   First name*
   ____________________________________________________________
   Last name* ____________________________________________________________
   Are you under 18? *
   (_) No
   (_) Yes
   As you are under 18, please tell us your date of birth so that
   we can send you information relevant to you. [dd/mm/yyyy] *
   ____________________
   ____________________
   ____________________

   [*Your information will be held by Amnesty International UK Section and
   Amnesty International UK Section Charitable Trust.
   We will never sell or swap your personal information with anyone else.
   Read more about how we use your information at
   amnesty.org.uk/privacy-notice]
   (Submit) Sign Up

Follow us

   Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Google+

Follow us

   Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Google+

Amnesty International

Amnesty International

About us

     * History
     * Good news
     * Urgent Actions
     * Governance
     * Finances
     * FAQs
     * Amnesty worldwide
     * Accountability
     * Supporter Promise

Nations

     * Northern Ireland
     * Scotland
     * Wales

Media

     * Press releases
     * Media team
     * Senior Management
     * Spokespeople

About this site

     * Terms and conditions
     * Cookies statement
     * Privacy notice
     * Community rules

Get in touch

     * Contact us
     * Send us feedback
     * Venue hire
     * Find us
     * Jobs
     * Shop

Quick links

     * Local groups
     * Youth groups
     * Student groups
     * Regional Reps
     * Country Coordinators
     * Safeguarding

Amnesty International

   © Amnesty International UK 2017. Amnesty International UK Section
   Charitable Trust. A company limited by guarantee registered in England
   and Wales (03139939) and a charity registered in England and Wales
   (1051681) and Scotland (SC039534). Amnesty International United Kingdom
   Section. A company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales
   (01735872). Registered office 17-25 New Inn Yard London EC2A 3EA.

   © Amnesty International UK 2017

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-49.txt>

   #alternate alternate

   Homepage

Accessibility links

     * Skip to content
     * Accessibility Help

   BBC Account
   Notifications
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Weather
     * iPlayer
     * Sounds
     * CBBC
     * CBeebies
     * Food
     * Bitesize
     * Earth
     * Arts
     * Make It Digital
     * Taster
     * Local
     * Tomorrow's World
     * TV
     * Radio
     * Menu

   Search
   Search the BBC ____________________ (Submit) Search the BBC

   BBC News

News Navigation

   Sections
     * Home
     * Video
     * World
     * UK
     * Business
     * Tech
     * Science
     * Stories
     * Entertainment & Arts
     * Health
     * World News TV
     * In Pictures
     * Reality Check
     * Newsbeat
     * Special Reports
     * Explainers
     * The Reporters
     * Have Your Say
     * (BUTTON) More More sections

     * Home
     * Video
     * World
          + World Home
          + Africa
          + Asia
          + Australia
          + Europe
          + Latin America
          + Middle East
          + US & Canada
     * UK
          + UK Home
          + England
          + N. Ireland
          + Scotland
          + Wales
          + Politics
     * Business
          + Business Home
          + Market Data
          + Global Trade
          + Companies
          + Entrepreneurship
          + Technology of Business
          + Connected World
          + Global Education
          + Economy
     * Tech
     * Science
     * Stories
     * Entertainment & Arts
     * Health
     * World News TV
     * In Pictures
     * Reality Check
     * Newsbeat
     * Special Reports
     * Explainers
     * The Reporters
     * Have Your Say

LGBT rights in Africa

Most recent

   Posted at 1:21 2 Jan

The schools learning from transgender students

   Rainbow flag at Durban Pride Festival

   South African schools are learning about the challenges faced by
   transgender students, writes Mohammed Allie.
   Read more
   Posted at 21:22 28 Nov 2018

Detained gay rugby player granted bail

   Kenneth Macharia

   Kenneth Macharia said he was "very happy to be free" and thanked
   friends for their support.
   Read more
   Posted at 16:12 19 Nov 2018

Gay rugby player in persecution fear

   Kenneth Macharia, member of Bristol Bisons RFC

   Bristol Bisons's Kenneth Macharia says he will suffer violence if he is
   forced to return to Kenya.
   Read more
   Posted at 18:14 15 Nov 2018

Denmark halts aid to Tanzania amid gay row

   Danish Minister for Development Cooperation Ulla Tornaes addresses the
   media in Dhaka, Bangladesh 31 October 2018.

   Planned payments of $9.8m will be withheld after anti-gay comments by a
   senior Tanzanian politician.
   Read more
   Posted at 17:07 7 Nov 2018

Arrests over Zanzibar 'gay wedding'

   A gay man with HIV stands in a clinic in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, 2016

   Amnesty International calls for the release of 10 men detained after an
   alleged gay celebration in Zanzibar.
   Read more
   Posted at 11:57 5 Nov 2018

Tanzania: Gay crackdown is not policy

   A gay man with HIV stands in a clinic in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, 2016

   The government distances itself from an official who wanted to create
   an anti-gay surveillance squad.
   Read more
   Posted at 16:13 2 Nov 2018

Growing up openly gay in Uganda

   A Ugandan activist describes her experience as a young lesbian
LGBT+ rights campaigner Kasha Nabagesera grew up in Uganda being open about her
attraction to other women.  She says she faced disapproval and expulsion from sc
hool, but no-one actually told her homosexuality was illegal.

Image: Kasha Nabagesera
Credit: Christine Dierenbach

   Posted at 16:47 31 Oct 2018

'Anti-gay' force launched in Tanzania

   A gay man with HIV stands in a clinic in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, 2016

   The team has been tasked with identifying and arresting gay people on
   social media.
   Read more
   Posted at 16:41 21 Sep 2018

Kenya briefly lifts ban on lesbian film

   Still from Rafiki film

   A judge temporarily allows the screening of a film about a lesbian love
   affair ahead of the Oscars.
   Read more
   Posted at 14:17 28 Aug 2018

Nigeria police arrests after 'gay party'

   Ishaq Khalid

   BBC Africa, Nigeria
   Men holding hands
   BBC
   Displays of same-sex affection are illegal in Nigeria

   Police in Nigeria say they arrested 57 men over the weekend on
   suspicion of being gay as displays of same-sex affection are banned in
   the West African country.

   The police raided a hotel in the main commercial city of Lagos where
   dozens of people - mostly men - were attending a party.

   Some fled during the mass arrests in the early hours of Sunday morning,
   but officers rounded up 57 people who they say are homosexual.

   Chike Godwin Oti, police spokesman in Lagos state, told the BBC that
   investigations were continuing and the suspects would be charged.

   Homosexual acts are punishable by up to 14 years in jail in Nigeria –
   such relationships were first outlawed under colonial rule in 1901.

   Laws were tightened in 2014 when gay marriage and displays of same-sex
   affection were also banned.

   Since then the authorities have cracked down on people suspected of
   homosexuality. However, arrests are infrequent as homosexual people
   live in hiding.

   Watch: Queer in Nigeria: 'People don't think we exist'

   (Submit) Show more updates
   Back to top

News Navigation

   (BUTTON) SectionsSections
     * Home
     * Video
     * World
          + World Home
          + Africa
          + Asia
          + Australia
          + Europe
          + Latin America
          + Middle East
          + US & Canada
     * UK
          + UK Home
          + England
          + N. Ireland
          + Scotland
          + Wales
          + Politics
     * Business
          + Business Home
          + Market Data
          + Global Trade
          + Companies
          + Entrepreneurship
          + Technology of Business
          + Connected World
          + Global Education
          + Economy
     * Tech
     * Science
     * Stories
     * Entertainment & Arts
     * Health
     * World News TV
     * In Pictures
     * Reality Check
     * Newsbeat
     * Special Reports
     * Explainers
     * The Reporters
     * Have Your Say

BBC News Services

     * On your mobile
     * On your connected tv
     * Get news alerts
     * Contact BBC News

Explore the BBC

     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Weather
     * iPlayer
     * Sounds
     * CBBC
     * CBeebies
     * Food
     * Bitesize
     * Earth
     * Arts
     * Make It Digital
     * Taster
     * Local
     * Tomorrow's World
     * TV
     * Radio

     * Terms of Use
     * About the BBC
     * Privacy Policy
     * Cookies
     * Accessibility Help
     * Parental Guidance
     * Contact the BBC
     * Get Personalised Newsletters

   Copyright © 2019 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of
   external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.

</fichier>

<fichier: EN-50.txt>

   logo for South Africa Travel Online SAA Mauritius Flights From R6,339*

   facebook icon.
   email icon
   twitter icon.
   ____________________________________ Search
     * Airline Reviews
          + Mango Flights
          + Kulula Flights
          + FlySafair Flights
          + Emirates Flights
          + Etihad Flights
          + SAA Flights
          + SA Express
          + British Airways
     * Flight Specials
          + Mango Airlines
          + Kulula specials
          + FlySafair specials
          + Emirates specials
          + Qatar specials
          + SAA specials
          + BA specials
          + Cheap Flights
     * Flight routes
          + Flights to Cape Town
          + Flights from Cape Town
          + Flights to Johannesburg
          + Flights from Johannesburg
          + Flights to Durban
          + Flights from Durban
          + Flights to Bloemfontein
          + Flights to East London
          + Flights to George
          + Flights to Kruger
          + Cape Town to London
          + Johannesburg to London
     * Cruises
          + Cruises from Durban
          + Cruises from Cape Town
          + NEW Cruises to Pomene
          + NEW MSC Orchestra Cruises
          + MSC Musica Cruises
          + MSC Cruises
          + Royal Caribbean
          + International Cruises
          + Mediterranean Cruises
     * Car Hire
          + Bloemfontein car hire
          + Cape Town car hire
          + Durban car hire
          + East London car hire
          + George car hire
          + Johannesburg car hire
          + Lanseria Airport car hire
          + Nelspruit car hire
          + PE car hire
          + Minibus Hire

                                   IFRAME:
   /booking-engine/_new/external-search/external-search.php?from=Cape%20To
   wn%20International%20Airport,%20CPT,%20Cape%20Town,%20South%20Africa&to
            =Bloemfontein,%20BFN,%20Bloemfontein,%20South Africa

Why gay marriages should not have been legalised

                        First religious gay marriage

                                Quotes about
                                gay marriage

                          Gay marriage South Africa

                          First gay marriage on TV

                        First televised gay marriage

                              First gay divorce

                           [bush-gay-marriage.png]

   1) Being gay is not natural. Real South Africans always reject
   unnatural things like eyeglasses, polyester, and air conditioning.
   2) Gay marriage will encourage people to be gay, in the same way that
   hanging around tall people will make you tall.
   3) Legalizing gay marriage will open the door to all kinds of crazy
   behavior. People may even wish to marry their pets because a dog has
   legal standing and can sign a marriage contract.
   4) Straight marriage has been around a long time and hasn't changed at
   all; women are still property, blacks still can't marry whites, and
   divorce is still illegal.
   5) Straight marriage will be less meaningful if gay marriage were
   allowed; the sanctity of Britney Spears's 55-hour just-for-fun marriage
   would be destroyed.
   6) Straight marriages are valid because they produce children. Gay
   couples, infertile couples, and old people shouldn't be allowed to
   marry because our orphanages aren't full yet, and the world needs more
   children.
   7) Obviously gay parents will raise gay children, since straight
   parents only raise straight children.
   8) Gay marriage is not supported by religion. In a theocracy like ours,
   the values of one religion are imposed on the entire country. That's
   why we have only have one religion in South Africa.
   9) Children can never succeed without a male and a female role model at
   home. That's why we as a society expressly forbid single parents to
   raise children.
   10) Gay marriage will change the foundation of society; we could never
   adapt to new social norms. Just like we haven't adapted to cars or
   cellphones.

   Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
   Google+

   IFRAME:
   //www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com
   %2FSouthAfricaTO&width=40&height=65&colorscheme=light&layout=box_count&
   action=like&show_faces=false&send=false

   email icon
   Follow @SouthAfricaTo

   Back to Top

   IFRAME:
   http://www.southafrica.to/live-content/includes/HOMEPAGEAdvertRight.htm
   l

   Ritsgids logo
     * Home
     * About
     * Contacts
     * Site Maps
     * Terms
     * Privacy Policy
     * Newsletter subscription
     * South Africa Travel Online CC © 2017
       Previously Cheap Flights South Africa CC
       Registration number: 2010/076688/23
       Address: 17 Elizabeth Avenue, Pinelands, 7405
       Phone:
       Click here Cruises: 021 531 7453
       Buses/Flights: 087 351 2051
       Fax : 086-607-5722
       Email: cheapflights@southafrica.to

</fichier>

