                       Conservative Case for Gay Marriage
Conservative Case for Gay Marriage
   vote for same-sex marriage in the Minnesota House last week (the state
   might have been writing about the whole marriage movement.
   This month, Rhode Island and Delaware approved gay marriage. In June,
   nearly 30% of the population will live in gay-marriage states.
   The cascade extends beyond marriage. America is rethinking its whole
   relationship with its gay citizens. This month, a poll by ABC News and
   The Washington Post found not only a 55% majority supporting marriage
   gay Boy Scouts and opposed to banning gay Scout leaders. As for NBA
   center Jason Collins’ public announcement that he’s gay, it isn’t even
   To understand why the public is breaking so fast for same-sex marriage,
   There, on the same day that Delaware’s Senate passed marriage equality,
   Now, this is not a man who has done right by marriage. Rather, he used
   job and his marriage. But last week, the voters chose to overlook both
   standard. No matter how hard gays work to be true to our life partners,
   we don’t qualify for marriage. But no matter how shabbily straights
   treat their vows, they qualify not only for marriage but also for
   When millions of Americans see straight people busting up marriages
   while gay people struggle to form them, they draw the obvious, and
   correct, conclusion. America needs more marriages, not fewer. The
   threat to marriage in the USA today comes not from gays’ trying to
   pregnancy than red states do. “If you’re looking for solid marriages,”
   written, “head to Massachusetts, not Alabama.” Why? Gay marriage
   Same-sex marriage is socially conservative in that sense — and in a
   it is also about responsibility and obligation. Marriage joins couples
   community, their kids, their God and millenniums of custom. Gay and
   seeking marriage, gays are asking to join Burke’s mighty stream of
   That is why same-sex marriage is cascading. The public looks at
   marriage equality and sees the greatest social conservative movement of
