Same Sex Marriage Laws
Same-Sex Marriage Laws
     * State Same-Sex Marriage Laws Map
   ruled that states cannot ban same-sex marriage, thereby requiring all
   states to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples.
   defining whether marriage is limited to relationships between a man and
   marriage, 31 states had either constitutional or statutory provisions
   that explicitly defined marriage as between a man and a woman and just
   19 states and the District of Columbia allowed same-sex marriage. Now,
   at least 37 states and D.C. recognize same-sex marriage.
   The status of same-sex marriage remains in flux. All states have some
   of Appeals struck down same-sex marriage bans in Nevada and Idaho.
   marriage licenses in Kansas. A South Carolina state Supreme Court and
   marriage bans. On Jan. 6, 2015, the state of Florida will begin
   allowing same-sex marriage after a district judge ruled the ban
   Alabama began issuing same-sex marriage licenses after a U.S. district
   these changes, at least 37 states and D.C. recognize same-sex marriage.
   marriage.
   same-sex marriage. On Nov. 6, 2014, a federal appeals court judge in
   the 6th U.S. Circuit upheld four states' bans on same-sex marriage. The
   marriage and whether states may refuse to recognize same-sex marriages
   CAPTION: States that Allowed Same-Sex Marriage Prior to 2015 U.S.
State Same-Sex Marriage Laws Prior to 2015 U.S. Supreme Court Ruling:
   The public national discussion around same-sex marriage first began in
   clearly define marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman and
   Before 1993, seven states had laws that defined marriage as a
   raised the possibility that states could recognize same sex marriage,
   defining marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman,
   constitutional provision prohibiting same-sex marriage. Nebraska
   adopted a constitutional provision limiting marriage to relationships
   constitutional provisions limiting marriage to opposite-sex couples by
   legalizing marriage for same-sex couples or by establishing an
   marriage as the "legally recognized union of one man and one woman,"
   barring same-sex couples from civil marriage was unconstitutional. The
   from civil marriage but would create civil unions as a parallel
   the state of Massachusetts began issuing marriage licenses to same-sex
   to redefine marriage to include same-sex couples or to establish a
   couples the same rights as opposite-sex marriage couples.  The New
   and same-sex marriages were performed in California for a short period
   amendment that defined marriage as a relationship between a man and a
   woman. It passed in November 2008, again banning same-sex marriage in
   marriages violated the equal protection provisions of the U.S.
   allow same-sex marriages to be performed) was delayed until the case
   reinstated the right to marriage for same-sex couples in California.
   same-sex marriage was in violation of the equal protection clause in
   same-sex marriage. In 2009, the Connecticut General Assembly passed a
   statute allowing same sex marriage and ending civil unions.
   against same-sex marriage was unconstitutional. Iowa began performing
   same-sex marriages in June 2009.
   marriage. Governor Douglas vetoed the bill, but the veto was overridden
   same-sex marriage.
   in May 2009 allowing same sex marriage. Opponents, however,
   ballot. Same-sex marriages were delayed, pending the ballot outcome.
   New Hampshire also passed same-sex marriage legislation in June 2009,
   bringing the total number of states that allowed same-sex marriage to
   marriage law, subject to a congressional review period. The law took
   same-sex marriage. Governor Andrew Cuomo immediately signed the
   marriages available in New York in late July 2011.
   establishing same-sex marriage. In June 2012 opponents gathered enough
   the law and same-sex marriages began on Dec. 6, 2012.
   The New Jersey Legislature passed a same-sex marriage bill in February
   October 2013 that the state must recognize same-sex marriage, New
   same-sex marriage to answer some questions left unanswered in the court
   Maryland passed a same-sex marriage bill in February 2012 that was
   same-sex marriage. It is the first time voters had been asked to
   legalize same-sex marriage rather than prohibit it. The measure went
   to uphold the same-sex marriage laws marked a watershed. They were the
   first instances of public votes to establish same-sex marriage. On the
   of same-sex marriages. Those four votes reversed a long trend of public
   votes against same sex marriage. Previously, voters in 32 states had
   consistently voted to limit same-sex marriage. Thirty states had
   enacted constitutional provisions to define marriage as a relationship
   between a man and a woman and prohibit same-sex marriages. Between 1998
   restrictions on same-sex marriage. (In 2006, Arizona voters rejected a
   constitutional provision prohibiting same-sex marriage and then
   Legislative actions supporting same sex-marriage continued in
   2013. Rhode Island passed same-sex marriage legislation and Governor
   civil unions to marriage and recognizes civil unions and same sex
   marriage from other jurisdictions. The law went into effect Aug. 1,
   Delaware passed same-sex marriage legislation and Governor Markell
   to marriage and recognizes civil unions and same sex marriage from
   Minnesota passed a law allowing same-sex marriage in May 2013. The law
   8, thus allowing same sex marriage in California. Amid some confusion
   about timing, same-sex marriages began shortly after the decision.
   DOMA law that limited over one thousand federal benefits to marriages
   defining marriage and required the federal government to recognize
   same-sex marriages granted under state law. Federal agencies are now
   married in a state that allows same-sex marriage but who now live in a
   state that does not allow same-sex marriage.
   had. The federal government did not recognize civil unions as marriages
   was unlikely to win on appeal. The order to allow same-sex marriages
   drop its appeal, making same sex marriages legal in New Jersey.
   same-sex marriage legislation. The Senate passed the initial bill on
   marriage or celebration of the marriage if it violates their religious
   Quinn signed the legislation on Nov. 20.  Same-sex marriages were set
   or allowing same-sex marriage. Some county officials had issued
   marriage licenses to same-sex couples in previous years. After the U.S.
          + Same Sex Marriage
