How Same-Sex Marriage Came to Be
   Fifty years ago, every state criminalized homosexual sex, and even the
   would not hire people who were openly gay or permit them to serve in
   the military. Police routinely raided gay bars. Only a handful of
   gay-rights organizations existed, and their membership was sparse. Most
   Americans would have considered the idea of same-sex marriage
   endorsing such marriages; among those aged 18 to 29, support is as high
   as 70 percent. President Barack Obama has embraced marriage equality.
   fact, in three states—approved same-sex marriage, and in a fourth, they
   How did support for gay marriage grow so quickly—to the point where the
The Pre-Marriage Era
   In the early 1970s, amid a burst of gay activism unleashed by the
   lawsuits demanding marriage licenses. Courts did not take their
   justices would not dignify the gay-marriage claim by asking even a
   Marriage equality was not then a priority of gay activists. Rather,
   electing the nation’s first openly gay public officials. Indeed, most
   gays and lesbians at the time were deeply ambivalent about marriage.
   from rape. Most sex radicals objected to traditional marriage’s
   insistence on monogamy; for them, gay liberation meant sexual
   of their relationships—and even gay marriage. The AIDS epidemic had
   highlighted the vulnerability of gay and lesbian partnerships: nearly
   50,000 people had died of AIDS, two-thirds of them gay men; the median
   age of the deceased was 36. An entire generation of young gay men was
   inheritance. In addition, the many gay and lesbian baby boomers who
   homosexual sex immoral, only 29 percent supported gay adoptions, and
   only 10 percent to 20 percent backed same-sex marriage. Not a single
   jurisdiction in the world had yet embraced marriage equality.
   In 1991, three gay couples in Hawaii challenged the constitutionality
   of laws limiting marriage to a man and woman. No national gay-rights
   couples from marriage was presumptively unconstitutional. The case was
   show a compelling justification for banning gay marriage. In 1996, a
   even in a relatively gay-friendly state, marriage equality was then a
   For the Republican Party in the 1990s, gay marriage was a dream issue
   recognition to gay marriages lawfully performed elsewhere. (Such
   marriages were nonexistent at the time.) One poll showed that 68
   percent of Americans opposed gay marriage. By 2001, 35 states had
   marriage—usually by overwhelming margins.
   Gay marriage also entered the national political arena in 1996. Just
   days before the Republican Party’s Iowa caucuses, antigay activists
   conducted a “marriage protection” rally at which presidential
   candidates denounced the “homosexual agenda,” which was said to be
   “destroying the integrity of the marriage-based family.” A few months
   Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), which provided that no state was
   required to recognize another’s same-sex marriages and that the federal
   traditional definition of marriage discriminated against same-sex
   marriage law to include same-sex couples or of creating a new
   with all of the benefits of marriage.
   their own lawsuit in 2001 demanding marriage equality. In 2003, the
   recognize same-sex marriage.
   state elections, marriage-equality supporters actually gained seats in
   constitutional amendment to define marriage as the union of a man and
   Americans at the time rejected gay marriage by two to one, and
   self-identified gays voted Democratic, yet some of the party’s
   Americans, tended to strongly oppose gay marriage.
   institution of marriage.” Although most congressional Democrats opposed
   definition of marriage on the ballot in 13 states in 2004, hoping to
   make gay marriage more salient in the minds of voters and inspire
   coast-to-coast rejection of gay marriage.” Most of the amendments
   gay marriage to rescue his floundering campaign. State party leaders
   marriage amendment, “limp-wristed” and a “switch hitter,” and reporters
   began asking him if he was gay. On Election Day, a state ballot measure
   barring gay marriage passed by three to one, while Bunning squeaked
   against gay marriage.
   gay marriage a centerpiece of his campaign. Thune pressed Daschle to
   explain his opposition to the federal marriage amendment and warned
   that “the institution of marriage is under attack from extremist
   border in North Dakota, a state marriage amendment passed by 73 percent
   Bush regularly called for passage of the federal marriage amendment
   hailed from Massachusetts, whose judges had decreed gay marriage a
   percent, while the gay-marriage ban passed by 24 percentage points. If
   the marriage amendment mobilized enough conservatives to turn out or
   group most likely to oppose gay marriage—the increase in Bush’s share
   amendments barring same-sex marriage. In 2006-07, high courts in
   rejected gay marriage.
   Despite the fierce political backlash ignited by gay-marriage rulings
   in the 1990s and 2000s, public backing for gay rights continued to
   reported knowing someone gay increased from 25 percent in 1985 to 74
   percent in 2000. Knowing gay people strongly predicts support for gay
   knowing someone gay favored gay marriage or civil unions, versus just
   35 percent of those who reported not knowing any gays.
   Support for allowing gays and lesbians to serve openly in the military
   marriage without the title increased from 23 percent in 1989 to 56
   one network television show had a regularly appearing gay character,
   child to watch a show with gay characters. By mid decade, however, the
   were dealing with gay marriage, and in 1997, Ellen DeGeneres famously
   acceptance of homosexuality.
   As society became more gay-friendly, millions of gays and lesbians
   chose to come out of the closet. And support for gay marriage gradually
   after the Massachusetts ruling, one study showed that opponents of gay
   marriage outnumbered supporters by 29 percentage points; by 2008, that
   Support for gay marriage grew for a second, related reason: young
   to know someone who is openly gay and have grown up in an environment
   that is much more tolerant of homosexuality than that of their parents.
   toward gay marriage.
   Moreover, despite the short-term political backlash it sparked, gay
   marriage litigation has probably advanced the cause of marriage
   the salience of gay marriage, making it an issue subject to much
   The gay-marriage rulings have also affected individuals’ actions and
   preferences. Litigation victories inspired gay activists to file
   lawsuits in additional states. The rulings also led more gay couples to
   want marriage—an institution about which they previously had been
   know they cannot have; the court decisions made gay marriage seem more
   Finally, the gay-marriage rulings created thousands of same-sex married
   differently about marriage equality. The sky did not fall.
Legislated Marriage Equality
   As support for gay marriage grew, high courts in California and
   5 percentage points. (Support for gay marriage in California had grown
   Six months after this bitter defeat, gay marriage took an enormous leap
   Court and three legislatures in New England embraced marriage equality.
   unlike other state court rulings in favor of marriage equality; and it
   to enact gay marriage legislatively, and New Hampshire and Maine
   But that fall, Maine voters vetoed the gay-marriage law by 52.8 percent
   New York and New Jersey, where gay-marriage bills were defeated after
   legislature refused to permit a referendum on a state marriage
   candidates denounced gay marriage; four supported a state
   made the election into a referendum on gay marriage, and the justices
   Elsewhere, gay marriage leapt forward. In 2011, the New York
   Maryland, and New Jersey passed gay-marriage bills, though Governor
   time, American voters endorsed gay marriage, in three states: voters in
   Washington and Maryland ratified marriage-equality bills; Mainers
   approved a gay-marriage initiative (reversing the 2009 outcome). That
   bar gay marriage—becoming only the second state in which voters had
   challenging the constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act and
   deferred to state definitions of marriage; conservative justices who
   with liberal justices who probably support marriage equality to
   to gay marriage, given that only nine states and the District of
   supporting gay rights, one of which explicitly embraces the notion of a
   relevant to American constitutional interpretation, and marriage
   likely be regarded as the Brown v. Board of Education of the gay-rights
   Whether or not the Court deems gay marriage a constitutional right this
   year, the future seems clear. Of late, support for marriage equality
   of people in a majority of states support gay marriage. By 2024, he
   marriage equality. In March 2011, the president of the Southern Baptist
   same-sex marriage…is going to become normalized, legalized, and
   People who believe that gay marriage contravenes God’s will are not
   are diminishing. Moreover, religious conservatives who condemn gay
   marriage will continue to influence Republican politicians who need
   marriage equality is likely to continue for several more years, even
   and the Struggle for Same-Sex Marriage.
