Two in Three Americans Support Same-Sex Marriage
Two in Three Americans Support Same-Sex Marriage
   Two in Three Americans Support Same-Sex Marriage
     * 67% of U.S. adults say gay marriages should be legally valid
     * New high in support for gay marriage in Gallup's trend
   marriage -- the highest level in Gallup's trend. In each of the past
   increases among Americans who say same-sex marriages should be legally
   supported gay marriage when Gallup first polled on the question in
   GayMarriageSupport
   lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) adults getting married in
   partner, and the visibility of these marriages may be playing a role in
   Gay marriage became legal nationwide in 2015 upon the Supreme Court's
   state, Massachusetts, had legalized gay marriage. In the years leading
   against same-sex marriage.
   Democrats Reach New High in Support for Same-Sex Marriage
   Democrats remain the most likely to support gay marriage among party
   marriages is the highest level of support recorded for this group.
   recognition of gay marriages -- less than half of the GOP favors legal
   gay marriage (44%). The latest figure for Republicans' views on gay
   marriage is similar to the 47% recorded in 2017. The GOP has seen
   gay marriage over the years, but has yet to reach majority support.
   Democrats. Currently, 71% of independents say gay marriages should be
   GayMarriageSupport_political
   no formidable opposition trying to undo gay marriage's legality, it's
   The trend toward increased public support for same-sex marriage could
   who remain mostly opposed to legally recognized same-sex marriages.
   In addition to the general trend toward greater acceptance of gay
   marriage, the same-sex weddings taking place across the country may be
   years -- and even longer in certain states -- some opponents to gay
   marriage may be rethinking their previous opposition.
   largely mirrored its trend on legalization of gay marriage. On both
   USA All Gallup Headlines LGBT Marriage Moral Issues Politics Social and
   The percentage of American adults identifying as lesbian, gay, bisexual
Majority Remains Satisfied With Acceptance of Gays in U.S.
   A majority of Americans remain satisfied with the acceptance of gays
