   same-sex marriage, largely due to the work of LGBT activists like
   said. “The fact of being able to access marriage is also personal.”
   marriage. The decision illustrated Latin America’s unlikely leadership
   in the fight for LGBT equal rights. Indeed, the focus on the US gay
   to legalize marriage equality, but it has also enacted some of the most
   While credit has long been given to the US gay rights movement, the
   Since Argentina legalized same-sex marriage in 2010, Colombia, Brazil,
   marriage legal. Other nations, such as Chile and Ecuador, recognize
   civil unions between same-sex couples, though not marriages.These
   institutions have made the legalization of same-sex marriage possible.
   of Guelph who has studied the legalization of same-sex marriage in the
   successfully appealed to citizens to approve same-sex marriage by
   Same-sex couples celebrate their marriages in Mexico.
   halt a range of liberal policies including same-sex marriage and
   industrialization, et cetera, and support for same-sex marriage.”
   criminalized homosexuality like their British colonial counterparts.
   marriage. In Cuba, the same-sex marriage cause has finally taken up by
   slow to same-sex marriage rights are countries in the English-speaking
   criminalized homosexuality like their British colonial counterparts.
   same-sex marriage in 2005, which set an example for its former
   colonies. Meanwhile, same-sex marriage wasn’t legalized in the United
   “Alongside the advance of marriage rights in places like Argentina,
   forefront of these “outlier” nations—where marriage, sadly, still seems
   these “outlier” nations—where marriage, sadly, still seems like a
   for same-sex marriage?”
   organization Acceder says: “It’s important to understand that marriage
   elections when same-sex marriage became a key issue.
   to legalize same-sex marriage.
   target of some type of violence,’” she said. Still, same-sex marriage
   mexico, LGBT, latin america, argentina, marriage equality
