                            Conditional Marriage
                             California Marriage
                           California Gay Marriage
                         Florida Marriage Amendment
                           Bible and Homosexuality
                       Arguments Against Gay Marriage
                     Arguments Against Same Sex Marriage
                           Bible Sermons Marriage
                       John McCain Marriage Amendment
                     He is against Traditional Marriage
                                Gay Marriage
                            Against Gay Marriage
                         Virginia Marriage Amendment
                        Wisconsin Marriage Amendment
                        Tennessee Marriage Amendment
                      Massachusetts Marriage Amendment
                      South Carolina Marriage Amendment
                           Gay Marriage Amendment
                        Marriage Protection Amendment
                          Idaho Marriage Amendment
                     Article on Gay and Lesbian Marriage
                         Federal Marriage Amendment
                        Biblical Traditional Marriage
                            Traditional Marriage
                     The Bible and No Same Sex Marriage
Anti Gay Marriage Arguments
   The following article is from NoGayMarriage.com. Many other articles on
   sodomite marriage are available at this same website.
Gay Marriage: Why Would It Affect Me?
Ten Arguments Against Same Sex Marriage
   (This is a synopsis of the new book by Dr. James Dobson, Marriage Under
Argument #1. Same Sex Marriage Decays Families
   advent of legally sanctioned gay unions in Scandinavian countries has
   already destroyed the institution of marriage, where half of today's
   addressed the epidemic of homosexuality that was rampant in the ancient
Argument #2. Gay Marriage Will Lead to Polygamy
   The introduction of legalized gay marriages will lead inexorably to
   marriage is not harmful to the culture. Do you see how the game is
   Why will gay marriage set the table for polygamy? Because there is no
   definition of marriage has rested on a bedrock of tradition, legal
   After the introduction of marriage between homosexuals, however, it
   group marriage, or marriage between relatives, or marriage between
   adults and children? How about marriage between a man and his donkey?
   underpinnings for marriage will have been destroyed.
Argument #3. States Will No Longer Protect Marriage
   An even greater objective of the homosexual movement is to end the
   marriages have been redefined, divorces will be obtained instantly,
   and privileges of marriage will accrue to gay and lesbian partners
   With the legalization of homosexual marriage, every public school in
   equivalent of traditional marriage between a man and a woman.
   to homosexuals.
Argument #5. Children Will Be Placed in Gay Households
   family involving one man and one woman over a homosexual couple in
Argument #6. Parents Will Be Reuiqred to Accept Homosexuality in Their
   to rid themselves of bias in favor of traditional marriage, and will
   have to affirm homosexuality in children and teens.
Argument #7. Gay Partners Will Burden the Government Entitlement System
Argument #8. Gay Marriage Will Spread Quickly to Other Countries
   Marriage among homosexuals will spread throughout the world, just as
   how we will handle the issue of homosexuality and marriage. Only two
   countries in the world have authorized gay marriage to date-the
   Instead of providing for a father and mother, the advent of homosexual
   marriage will create millions of motherless children and fatherless
   This reticence on behalf of Christians is deeply troubling. Marriage is
Marriage Duty of the Surviving Brother
No Gay Marriage bring you these Bible verses:
                          If you are Gay Click here
                                    Gay?
                           Gay Marriage Amendment
                          Gay and Lesbian Marriage
                              Marriage Equality
                        Marriage Protection Amendment
                             (Gay Marriage Ban)
                  Click here for state bans on gay marriage
                           (Ban Same Sex Marriage)
                            Ban Same Sex Marriage
                      Christian View Same Sex Marriage
                          Articles on Gay Marriage
                       Article on Homosexual Marriage
                        Bible and Homosexual Marriage
                             Marriage Amendment
