Same-sex marriage
   Same-sex marriage, the practice of marriage between two men or between
   two women. Although same-sex marriage has been regulated through law,
   period when attitudes toward homosexuality and laws regulating
   homosexual behaviour were liberalized, particularly in western Europe
   The issue of same-sex marriage frequently sparked emotional and
   levels, had legalized same-sex marriage; in other jurisdictions,
   constitutional measures were adopted to prevent same-sex marriages from
   marriages performed elsewhere. That the same act was evaluated so
   tables on same-sex marriage around the world, in the United States, and
Cultural ideals of marriage and sexual partnership
   Perhaps the earliest systematic analyses of marriage and kinship were
   century an enormous variety of marriage and sexual customs across
   most cultures expressed an ideal form of marriage and an ideal set of
   marriage partners, while also practicing flexibility in the application
   Among the more common forms so documented were common-law marriage;
   morganatic marriage, in which titles and property do not pass to
   children; exchange marriage, in which a sister and a brother from one
   family marry a brother and a sister from another; and group marriages
   traditional part of the marriage contract.
   Cultures that openly accepted homosexuality, of which there were many,
Religious and secular expectations of marriage and sexuality
   marriage practices once existed, conquering nations typically forced
   marriage.
   had legalized same-sex marriage, for instance, despite official
   had a less determinate effect on the outcome of same-sex marriage
   Netherlands—the first country to grant equal marriage rights to
   opposed same-sex marriage for one or more of the following stated
   reasons: homosexual acts violate natural law or divine intentions and
   are therefore immoral; passages in sacred texts condemn homosexual
   acts; and religious tradition recognizes only the marriage of one man
   on this issue. Orthodox Judaism opposed same-sex marriage, while the
   and the gay-oriented Universal Fellowship of Metropolitan Community
   Churches fully accepted same-sex marriage. Hinduism, without a sole
   viewed all marriage as a choice between the two individuals involved.
   interact; definitions of the purpose of marriage is another. In one
   view, the purpose of marriage is to ensure successful procreation and
   child rearing. In another, marriage provides a—and perhaps
   marriage is an instrument of societal domination and so is not
   Proponents of the first view believe that the primary goal of marriage
   both necessary for procreation, the privileges of marriage should be
   same-sex marriage is a misguided attempt to deny the social, moral, and
   same-sex marriage is problematic, there is also a tendency for the
   In contrast to the procreative model of marriage, advocates of the
   legalization of same-sex marriage generally believed that committed
   damaging the community. Most same-sex marriage advocates further held
   specific group from the full rights of marriage was illegally
   the legal perquisites associated with heterosexual marriage should be
   male-female, man-woman, gay-straight) and to replace these with
   practices of humanity. Queer advocates contended that marriage is an
   marriage should be disestablished as a cultural institution.
   order, infrastructure, and defense. For libertarians, marriage
   same-sex marriage—fell outside of the role of government and was
   unacceptable. As a result, many libertarians believed that marriage
Same-sex marriage and the law
   reproduction, and marriage in myriad ways. Their responses regarding
   similar or equal to that of heterosexual marriage. Many countries have
   yet to reach a consensus on these issues. (See also marriage law.)
   of same-sex marriage by treating same-sex intimacy as a subject
   homosexuality and lesbianism are mental disorders and built their
   marriage from the realm of civil regulations (the domain of contract
   registered partnerships—an attenuated version of marriage—for same-sex
   heterosexual marriages, went into effect in Norway (1993), Sweden
   marriage-for-procreation and marriage-for-community-good positions
   Israel recognized common-law same-sex marriage in the mid-1990s (the
   Israeli Supreme Court further ruled in 2006 that same-sex marriages
   “marriage” to same-sex as well as heterosexual unions. In 2000 the
   became the first country to offer marriage to same-sex couples; several
   other European countries subsequently legalized gay marriage. In 2003
   recognizing the same-sex marriages of fellow EU countries. As countries
   in Europe, began to shift in favour of full marriage rights for
   same-sex marriage should be legal throughout Europe; in a further seven
   support for same-sex marriage was quite low, often with fewer than
   approved of legalizing same-sex marriage in the United Kingdom; such
   marriages were legalized in England and Wales in 2013, and Scotland
   legislation legalizing same-sex marriage. Thereafter, South Africa
   countries, respectively, to legalize same-sex marriage. New Zealand
   legalized same-sex marriage in 2017, but the following year it passed a
   bill that replaced such marriages with domestic partnerships. Bermuda
   thus became the first country to repeal same-sex marriage.
   In other countries, decisions on same-sex marriage were effectively
   legalized same-sex marriage. Soon after the law went into effect in
   all states in the country had to recognize same-sex marriages performed
   in Mexico City. Gay marriage was later made legal, under the same
   couple the legal protections of marriage, although it stopped short of
   specifically authorizing same-sex marriage at the federal level. In
   same-sex marriages, which were considered valid throughout Brazil,
   jurisdiction in Australia to pass a law permitting the marriage of
   Australians voted for same-sex marriage in a nonbinding referendum.
   legalizing same-sex marriage, and it was signed into law in December
   In the United States the question of whether couples of the same sex
   plaintiffs claimed that the state’s refusal to issue marriage licenses
   compelling interest in preventing same-sex marriage, as that practice
   to the state constitution and thus made moot the issuing of marriage
   enacted the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). This legislation declared
   that same-sex marriages would not be recognized for federal purposes,
   no U.S. state or territory was required to recognize marriages from
   constitutional amendments declaring variously that marriage was legally
   defined as a heterosexual institution, that same-sex marriages from
   other states would not be recognized, or that same-sex marriage was
   the rights and responsibilities of marriage but not the name. In 2003
   marriage licenses to same-sex couples violated the state constitution;
   the situation. The state soon began to issue marriage licenses for
   2004 by issuing marriage licenses in defiance of local prohibitions;
   Connecticut—struck down state laws limiting marriage to the union
   passed a referendum, Proposition 8, that defined marriage as a union
   grounds that the prohibition of same-sex marriage violated the due
   gay marriage, and soon afterward the legislatures of Vermont, Maine,
   and New Hampshire legalized same-sex marriage—though in November 2009
   same-sex marriage were passed by legislatures in Maryland and
   became the first in the country to approve same-sex marriage at the
   American legal scholars and same-sex marriage advocates developed
   exegeses or other religious doctrine to support claims that marriage,
   same-sex marriage, but by 2010 about half of the population supported
   support same-sex marriage. In December the U.S. Supreme Court announced
   same-sex marriage: U.S. demonstration
   same-sex marriage: U.S. demonstrationDemonstrators in favour of
   same-sex marriage protesting in front of the U.S. Supreme Court
   overturned state bans of same-sex marriage. In all but two of those
   performed same-sex marriages prior to their suspension. U.S. Attorney
   General Eric Holder announced that those marriages would be recognized
   all lawful marriages in the United States. In October the U.S. Supreme
   states, which effectively made same-sex marriage legal in those
   jurisdictions. As an indirect consequence, same-sex marriage was soon
   end of 2014, the number of states where such marriages were legal had
   state laws and constitutional amendments banning same-sex marriage or
   the recognition of same-sex marriages performed in other jurisdictions.
   Circuit’s holdings, thereby legalizing same-sex marriage in all 50
   Court's ruling that effectively legalized same-sex marriage, June
The future of same-sex marriage
   marriage is simply not an urgent matter. In others, the broad spectrum
   of notions about sexuality and the purpose of marriage is compounded by
Same-sex marriage around the world
   marriage, as well as selected countries that offer some other legal
   CAPTION: Same-sex marriage around the world
   Countries with same-sex marriage^1
   ^1Same-sex marriage is also legal in parts of Mexico, and marriages
   ^2Same-sex marriage is legal in England, Wales, and Scotland.
       marriage and on recognizing same-sex marriages performed in other
       …which were the legalization of same-sex marriage and the
       …support for the legalization of same-sex marriage in a nonbinding
       to revise Australia’s Marriage Amendment Act 2004, which defined
       marriage as being between a man and a woman, and in December 2017
       Parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of marriage equality.…
       …nature of Canadian law regarding same-sex marriage was brought
       …in the world to approve same-sex marriage by referendum when 62
       allowing it. This result and the election of the openly gay
     * gay rights movement: Proposition 8
More About Same-sex marriage
     * National Conference of State Legislatures - Same-Sex Marriage Laws
     * same-sex marriage - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up)
   Same-sex marriage
   same-sex marriage View All Media
          + Marriage
          + Homosexuality
     * Homosexuality
     * Marriage
     * Common-law marriage
     * Common-law marriage
     * Banns of marriage
     * Group marriage
     * Cultural ideals of marriage and sexual partnership
     * Religious and secular expectations of marriage and sexuality
     * Same-sex marriage and the law
     * The future of same-sex marriage
     * Same-sex marriage around the world
   Same-sex marriage
   Same-sex marriage
