   skip to page content

   Home | Contact | Help
   MyAccount | Login | Register |
   National Conference of State Legislatures
     * About Us
       [SubTop.png]
          + Executive Committee
               o Members
               o Nominating Procedures
               o Officers
               o Standing Committees | Task Forces
          + NCSL Foundation for State Legislatures
               o Annual Report
               o Board of Directors
               o Core Programs
               o Sponsor List
          +
     * Legislators & Staff
       [SubTop.png]
          + Tools
               o A-Z Issues & NCSL Contacts
               o Get Involved with NCSL
               o Jobs Clearinghouse
               o Legislative Session Calendar
               o Staff Directories
               o StateConnect Directory
               o State Liaisons
               o Webinars
          + Legislators
               o Legislative Leaders
               o Legislator Training
               o Legislators Back to School
               o Standing Committees
               o Trust for Representative Democracy
               o Women's Legislative Network
               o Legislative Staff
               o Legislative Staff Coordinating Committee
               o Training
          + Professional Staff Associations
               o Clerks and Secretaries
               o Education Network
               o Fiscal Offices
               o Information Officers
               o Information Technology
               o Leadership Staff
               o Program Evaluation
               o Research Librarians
               o Research, Editorial, Legal and Committee Staff
               o Services & Security
          +
     * Research
       [SubTop.png]
          + Tools
               o A-Z Issues & NCSL Contacts
               o Bill Tracking
               o StateConnect Directory
               o State Legislatures Magazine
          + Topics
               o About State Legislatures
               o Agriculture and Rural Development
               o Civil and Criminal Justice
               o Education
               o Elections and Campaigns
               o Energy
               o Environment and Natural Resources
               o Ethics
               o Financial Services and Commerce
               o Fiscal Policy
          +
               o Health
               o Human Services
               o Immigration
               o International
               o Labor and Employment
               o Military and Veterans Affairs
               o Redistricting
               o State-Tribal Institute
               o Telecommunication and IT
               o Transportation
          +
     * Meetings & Training
       [SubTop.png]
          + Tools
               o Calendar
               o Online Registration
          + Meetings
               o NCSL Capitol Forum
               o Legislative Summit 2019
          + Training
               o E-Learning | Staff Professional Development
               o Legislator Training
          +
     * NCSL IN D.C.
       [SubTop.png]
          + Tools
               o Capitol to Capitol
               o Letters and Testimony
               o Federal Resources and Databases
               o Policy Directives and Resolutions
          + Standing Committees | Task Forces
               o Budgets and Revenue
               o Communications, Financial Services and Interstate
                 Commerce
               o Education
               o Health and Human Services
               o Labor and Economic Development
               o Law, Criminal Justice and Public Safety
               o Natural Resources and Infrastructure
               o Redistricting and Elections
          +
     * Magazine
       [SubTop.png]
          + State Legislatures Magazine
               o Advertising
               o Subscribe
          + LegisBriefs
          + Other Subscriptions
               o e-Newsletters
               o Mailing Lists
               o StateConnect
               o Mason's Manual
          +
       November/December
       The November/December issue of State Legislatures reports on the
       results of state legislative elections and how voters decided on
       statewide ballot measures. Also read about state moves to implement
       5G, tough new digital privacy laws, changes in the criminal justice
       system and a celebration of legislative staff.
       Current Issue
     * Blog

   Back

Same Sex Marriage Laws

Same-Sex Marriage Laws

   6/26/2015

Table of Contents

     * State Same-Sex Marriage Laws Map
     * History

Contact

     * All Press Inquiries

   [rings_gavel_240.jpg] Latest Development: The U.S. Supreme Court has
   ruled that states cannot ban same-sex marriage, thereby requiring all
   states to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples.

   Background and History: State legislatures, voters and more recently
   the courts have made sweeping changes over the past two decades in laws
   defining whether marriage is limited to relationships between a man and
   a woman or is extended to same-sex couples. Before the U.S. Supreme
   Court ruling on Oct. 6, 2014, declining to hear cases on same-sex
   marriage, 31 states had either constitutional or statutory provisions
   that explicitly defined marriage as between a man and a woman and just
   19 states and the District of Columbia allowed same-sex marriage. Now,
   at least 37 states and D.C. recognize same-sex marriage.

   The status of same-sex marriage remains in flux. All states have some
   court case pending on the topic. Five of those states’ cases were
   pending before the U.S. Supreme Court. The Supreme Court decided not to
   hear the cases, thereby allowing the decisions from the 4th, 7th and
   10th U.S. Circuit Courts of Appeal to stand. That meant same-sex
   couples could marry in five more states—Indiana, Oklahoma, Utah,
   Virginia and Wisconsin. The following day, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court
   of Appeals struck down same-sex marriage bans in Nevada and Idaho.

   Two days later, West Virginia’s attorney general stopped his defense of
   that state’s ban. Colorado’s attorney general said the 10th U.S.
   Circuit Court of Appeals decision invalidates that state’s ban. In
   North Carolina, a federal judge ruled that state’s ban
   unconstitutional, applying the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
   ruling. Alaska's appeal was refused by the Supreme Court and a federal
   district judge ruled Arizona's ban unconstitutional and the attorney
   general said he would not appeal the decision. Wyoming is the latest
   state where the attorney general has decided not to appeal a federal
   district court judge ruling the state’s ban unconstitutional. The U.S.
   Supreme Court on Nov. 12, 2014, lifted its hold on issuing same-sex
   marriage licenses in Kansas. A South Carolina state Supreme Court and
   federal judge in Montana are the latest to rule overturning same-sex
   marriage bans. On Jan. 6, 2015, the state of Florida will begin
   allowing same-sex marriage after a district judge ruled the ban
   unconstitutional and the U.S. Supreme Court refused to grant the
   state’s attorney general a stay on the decision. On February 9, 2015
   Alabama began issuing same-sex marriage licenses after a U.S. district
   judge ruled the state's ban unconstitutional. The judge put the January
   decision on hold to allow the state to prepare. The state requested the
   hold be extended, but the U.S. Supreme Court refused to do so. With
   these changes, at least 37 states and D.C. recognize same-sex marriage.
   In June 2015, a federal judge in Guam ruled their ban to be
   unconstitutional, making Guam the first territory to allow same-sex
   marriage.

   There is also a federal appeals court ruling to uphold states' ban on
   same-sex marriage. On Nov. 6, 2014, a federal appeals court judge in
   the 6th U.S. Circuit upheld four states' bans on same-sex marriage. The
   opinion upholds bans in Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, and Tennessee. The
   decision is the first by a federal appeals court to uphold the
   bans. The U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear the four cases. The
   court is expected to hear arguments in April and make a decision in
   June on whether it is constitutional for states to prohibit same-sex
   marriage and whether states may refuse to recognize same-sex marriages
   lawfully performed out of state.

   CAPTION: States that Allowed Same-Sex Marriage Prior to 2015 U.S.
   Supreme Court Ruling

   Alabama       New Hampshire
   Alaska

   New Jersey

   Arizona

   New Mexico

   California

   New York

   Colorado
   North Carolina

   Connecticut

   Oklahoma
   Delaware      Oregon

   Florida
   Pennsylvania

   Hawaii

   Rhode Island

   Idaho

   South Carolina

   Illinois

   Utah

   Indiana

   Vermont

   Iowa

   Virginia

   Kansas

   Washington

   Maine

   West Virginia

   Maryland

   Wisconsin
   Massachusetts Wyoming
   Minnesota     District of Columbia

   Montana

   Guam
   Nevada



State Same-Sex Marriage Laws Prior to 2015 U.S. Supreme Court Ruling:
Legislatures and Courts

   50-state map

History

   The public national discussion around same-sex marriage first began in
   1993 when the Hawaii Supreme Court ruled that laws denying same-sex
   couples the right to marry violated state constitutional equal
   protection rights unless the state could show a "compelling reason" for
   such discrimination. Since that time, many states have taken actions to
   clearly define marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman and
   others have allowed same-sex couples to marry.

   Before 1993, seven states had laws that defined marriage as a
   relationship between a man and a woman. After the Hawaii court decision
   raised the possibility that states could recognize same sex marriage,
   32 state legislatures (including Hawaii) adopted statutory language
   defining marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman,
   including Alaska, which adopted both a statute and the nation’s first
   constitutional provision prohibiting same-sex marriage. Nebraska
   adopted a constitutional provision limiting marriage to relationships
   between a man and a woman. As a result, 40 states had statutory and/or
   constitutional provisions limiting marriage to opposite-sex couples by
   the end of 2000.

   Starting in 2000, some states began recognizing same-sex couples’
   relationships. In April 2000, Vermont approved landmark legislation to
   recognize civil unions between same-sex couples, granting them
   virtually all the benefits, protections and responsibilities that
   married couples have under Vermont law. The Vermont legislation was a
   result of the state Supreme Court ruling in Baker v. Vermont that said
   same-sex couples are entitled, under the state constitution's "Common
   Benefits Clause," to the same benefits and protections as married
   opposite-sex couples. The court ruled that the Vermont General Assembly
   must decide how to provide these benefits and protections, either by
   legalizing marriage for same-sex couples or by establishing an
   alternative system. The Vermont General Assembly chose to preserve
   marriage as the "legally recognized union of one man and one woman,"
   but at the same time create a parallel system of civil unions for
   same-sex couples that went beyond existing "domestic partnership" and
   "reciprocal beneficiaries."

   In Nov. 2003, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruled that
   barring same-sex couples from civil marriage was unconstitutional. The
   Senate then asked the court for an advisory opinion on the
   constitutionality of a proposed law that would bar same-sex couples
   from civil marriage but would create civil unions as a parallel
   institution, with all the same benefits, protections, rights and
   responsibilities under law. In February, the court answered,
   "segregating same-sex unions from opposite-sex unions cannot possibly
   be held rationally to advance or preserve" the governmental aim of
   encouraging "stable adult relationships for the good of the individual
   and of the community, especially its children." Under this decision,
   the state of Massachusetts began issuing marriage licenses to same-sex
   couples in May 2004.  It was the first state to do so.

   In 2005, Connecticut became the second state to enact a state law
   providing civil unions to same-sex couples.

   In October 2006, the New Jersey Supreme Court ordered the legislature
   to redefine marriage to include same-sex couples or to establish a
   separate legal structure, such as civil unions, to give same-sex
   couples the same rights as opposite-sex marriage couples.  The New
   Jersey legislature chose to create civil unions in 2007, which gave
   same-sex couples the same legal rights as married, opposite sex
   couples.

   New Hampshire legislation also created civil unions in 2007, making it
   the fourth state to adopt that approach.

   On May 15, 2008, the California Supreme Court ruled that same-sex
   couples should have the right to marry. The ruling took effect mid-June
   and same-sex marriages were performed in California for a short period
   of time before a ballot initiative challenging the decision was
   certified in late summer. Proposition 8 proposed a state constitutional
   amendment that defined marriage as a relationship between a man and a
   woman. It passed in November 2008, again banning same-sex marriage in
   California. Proposition 8 was challenged in early 2009, but the
   California Supreme Court upheld the law in May 2009. In August 2010, a
   federal district judge ruled that the Proposition 8 ban on same-sex
   marriages violated the equal protection provisions of the U.S.
   Constitution. The decision was appealed and enforcement (that would
   allow same-sex marriages to be performed) was delayed until the case
   could be heard by the federal appeals court. In February 2012, the
   9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the earlier district court
   decision that declared Proposition 8 invalid. The 2-1 decision
   reinstated the right to marriage for same-sex couples in California.
   The case was appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court and enforcement was
   delayed until the court decided.

   In October 2008, the Connecticut Supreme Court ruled that a ban against
   same-sex marriage was in violation of the equal protection clause in
   the state constitution. Connecticut became the second state to allow
   same-sex marriage. In 2009, the Connecticut General Assembly passed a
   statute allowing same sex marriage and ending civil unions.

   In April 2009, the Iowa Supreme Court ruled that the state's ban
   against same-sex marriage was unconstitutional. Iowa began performing
   same-sex marriages in June 2009.

   In April 2009, the Vermont legislature passed a bill allowing same-sex
   marriage. Governor Douglas vetoed the bill, but the veto was overridden
   by the legislature. Vermont became the first state where the
   legislature, without judicial mandate, passed a statute to allow
   same-sex marriage.

   The Maine Legislature passed and Governor Baldacci signed legislation
   in May 2009 allowing same sex marriage. Opponents, however,
   successfully petitioned a referendum on the issue for the November
   ballot. Same-sex marriages were delayed, pending the ballot outcome.
   Voters approved the referendum, effectively repealing the law in
   November 2009.

   New Hampshire also passed same-sex marriage legislation in June 2009,
   bringing the total number of states that allowed same-sex marriage to
   five.

   In December 2009, the District of Columbia Council passed a same-sex
   marriage law, subject to a congressional review period. The law took
   effect in March 2010.

   In June 2011, the New York Assembly passed legislation allowing
   same-sex marriage. Governor Andrew Cuomo immediately signed the
   legislation. The law took effect 30 days after signing, making same-sex
   marriages available in New York in late July 2011.

   The pace of state legislative action quickened in 2012. The Washington
   state Legislature and governor approved legislation in February 2012
   establishing same-sex marriage. In June 2012 opponents gathered enough
   signatures to put the issue on the ballot in November. Voters upheld
   the law and same-sex marriages began on Dec. 6, 2012.

   The New Jersey Legislature passed a same-sex marriage bill in February
   2012, but the measure was vetoed by Governor Christie. The legislature
   had until January 2014 to override the veto with two-thirds of the
   Assembly and Senate needed to do so. With the state court decision in
   October 2013 that the state must recognize same-sex marriage, New
   Jersey officials are considering whether to pass legislation on
   same-sex marriage to answer some questions left unanswered in the court
   decision.

   Maryland passed a same-sex marriage bill in February 2012 that was
   signed by Governor O’Malley on March 1. Opponents of the legislation
   obtained enough signatures to file a referendum challenging the law.
   Voters upheld the law and it went into effect on Jan. 1, 2013.

   In November 2012, voters in Maine approved a ballot measure legalizing
   same-sex marriage. It is the first time voters had been asked to
   legalize same-sex marriage rather than prohibit it. The measure went
   into effect Dec. 29, 2012.

   The Maine initiative and the Washington and Maryland referendum votes
   to uphold the same-sex marriage laws marked a watershed. They were the
   first instances of public votes to establish same-sex marriage. On the
   same date, Minnesota voters voted against a constitutional prohibition
   of same-sex marriages. Those four votes reversed a long trend of public
   votes against same sex marriage. Previously, voters in 32 states had
   consistently voted to limit same-sex marriage. Thirty states had
   enacted constitutional provisions to define marriage as a relationship
   between a man and a woman and prohibit same-sex marriages. Between 1998
   and May 2012, only one public vote out of 32 had not supported
   restrictions on same-sex marriage. (In 2006, Arizona voters rejected a
   constitutional provision prohibiting same-sex marriage and then
   approved a prohibition in 2008.)

   Legislative actions supporting same sex-marriage continued in
   2013. Rhode Island passed same-sex marriage legislation and Governor
   Chafee signed the bill into law on May 2, 2013. The bill converted
   civil unions to marriage and recognizes civil unions and same sex
   marriage from other jurisdictions. The law went into effect Aug. 1,
   2013.

   Delaware passed same-sex marriage legislation and Governor Markell
   signed the bill into law on May 7, 2013. The law converts civil unions
   to marriage and recognizes civil unions and same sex marriage from
   other jurisdictions. The law went into effect July 1, 2013.

   Minnesota passed a law allowing same-sex marriage in May 2013. The law
   went into effect on Aug. 1, 2013.

   On June 26, 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to decide the
   California challenge to Proposition 8, ruling on technical grounds that
   it did not have jurisdiction. The effect of that decision was to
   reinstate the federal district court decision overturning Proposition
   8, thus allowing same sex marriage in California. Amid some confusion
   about timing, same-sex marriages began shortly after the decision.

   On the same day, the Supreme Court decided a challenge to the federal
   DOMA law that limited over one thousand federal benefits to marriages
   defined as a relationship between a man and a woman. It ruled that the
   restriction violated equal protection and due process for married
   same-sex couples. The decision emphasized the dominance of state law
   defining marriage and required the federal government to recognize
   same-sex marriages granted under state law. Federal agencies are now
   working through the challenges of how to deal with same-sex couples
   married in a state that allows same-sex marriage but who now live in a
   state that does not allow same-sex marriage.

   The court’s federal DOMA decision triggered a challenge to New Jersey’s
   law providing only civil unions for same-sex couples. The earlier New
   Jersey Supreme Court decision had required the state to offer the same
   legal rights to same-sex couples that married, opposite sex couples
   had. The federal government did not recognize civil unions as marriages
   so couples in a civil union could not have access to the same federal
   benefits. The state district court ordered the state to allow same-sex
   couples to marry, but delayed enforcement of the order for three weeks
   to allow the state to appeal. The state requested a further delay to
   allow it to prepare the appeal, but both the district court and the
   state Supreme Court denied the request on the grounds that the state
   was unlikely to win on appeal. The order to allow same-sex marriages
   went into effect and Governor Christie announced that the state would
   drop its appeal, making same sex marriages legal in New Jersey.

   Hawaii held a special session in October and November to consider
   same-sex marriage legislation. The Senate passed the initial bill on
   Oct. 30. The House Finance and Judiciary Committees held joint hearings
   that ran five days (55 hours of testimony) and included more than
   1,000 people testifying. On Nov. 8, the House passed the Senate bill
   with an amendment that strengthened exemptions that allow religious
   organizations to not provide facilities, goods or services for the
   marriage or celebration of the marriage if it violates their religious
   beliefs. The Senate agreed to the amendment. Governor Neil Abercrombie
   signed the legislation on Nov. 13. It took effect on Dec. 2, 2013.

   On Nov. 5, the Illinois House passed SB 10 which had already passed in
   the Illinois Senate. For several months, House leaders had delayed the
   vote over concerns the bill might not have enough support. Governor Pat
   Quinn signed the legislation on Nov. 20.  Same-sex marriages were set
   to begin on June 1, 2014.

   The New Mexico Supreme Court ruled on Dec. 19, 2013, that same-sex
   couples are allowed to marry. Before the ruling, New Mexico was the
   only state without a law or constitutional provision explicitly banning
   or allowing same-sex marriage. Some county officials had issued
   marriage licenses to same-sex couples in previous years. After the U.S.
   Supreme Court ruling in June 2013, the state asked the New Mexico
   Supreme Court to make a decision regarding their state policy. The
   state Supreme Court heard arguments in October and ruled on Dec. 19,
   2013, that same-sex couples in the state were allowed to marry. The
   ruling went into effect immediately.

NAVIGATE

   Home
     * About State Legislatures
     * Agriculture and Rural Development
     * Civil and Criminal Justice
     * Education
     * Elections and Campaigns
     * Energy
     * Environment and Natural Resources
     * Ethics
     * Financial Services and Commerce
     * Fiscal Policy
     * Health
     * Human Services
          + Child Support and Family Law
          + Child Welfare
          + Early Care and Education
          + Hunger and Nutrition
          + Same Sex Marriage
          + Welfare and Poverty
     * Immigration
     * International
     * Labor and Employment
     * Military and Veterans Affairs
     * Redistricting
     * State-Tribal Institute
     * Telecommunications and Information Technology
     * Transportation

   Share this:
   GetStarted
   We are the nation's most respected bipartisan organization providing
   states support, ideas, connections and a strong voice on Capitol Hill.

NCSL Member Toolbox

Members Resources

     * Get Involved With NCSL
     * Jobs Clearinghouse
     * Legislative Careers
     * NCSL Staff Directories
     * Staff Directories
     * StateConnect Directory
     * Terms and Conditions

Policy & Research Resources

     * Bill Information Service
     * Legislative Websites
     * NCSL Bookstore
     * State Legislatures Magazine

Accessibility Support

     * Tel: 1-800-659-2656 or 711
     * Accessibility Support
     * Accessibility Policy

Meeting Resources

     * Calendar
     * Online Registration

Press Room

     * Media Contact
     * NCSL in the News
     * Press Releases

Denver

   7700 East First Place
   Denver, CO 80230
   Tel: 303-364-7700 | Fax: 303-364-7800

Washington

   444 North Capitol Street, N.W., Suite 515
   Washington, D.C. 20001
   Tel: 202-624-5400 | Fax: 202-737-1069
   Go 24378 ____________________   [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)__
   Copyright 2019 by National Conference of State Legislatures
   Website Feedback

   This website uses cookies to analyze traffic and for other purposes.
   You consent to the use of cookies if you use this website. (1) Continue
   (1) Our online privacy policy
