                             [slow_an_cross.gif]


                             [display.gif]
     __________________________________________________________________

     [cocorner2.jpg]

                                    Home

                            Conditional Marriage

                             California Marriage
                           California Gay Marriage

                         Florida Marriage Amendment

                           Bible and Homosexuality

                       Arguments Against Gay Marriage

                     Arguments Against Same Sex Marriage
                        Sample Letters to the Editor

                        Church Bulletin Announcements

                           Church Bulletin Inserts

                            Church Newspaper Ads

                                Bumpersticker

                                 Contact Us

                           Bible Sermons Marriage

                       John McCain Marriage Amendment
                     He is against Traditional Marriage

                                Gay Marriage
                               More Resources

                            Against Gay Marriage

                         Virginia Marriage Amendment

                        Wisconsin Marriage Amendment

                        Tennessee Marriage Amendment

                      Massachusetts Marriage Amendment

                      South Carolina Marriage Amendment

                           Gay Marriage Amendment
                                   Arizona

                        Marriage Protection Amendment
                           Why we lost in Arizona

                          Idaho Marriage Amendment

                     Article on Gay and Lesbian Marriage

                         Federal Marriage Amendment

                        Biblical Traditional Marriage
                           Pastors Advisory Board

                            God's 1st Commandment

                            Traditional Marriage

                                Bible Sermons

                     The Bible and No Same Sex Marriage

                            Signs of Free Speech

                            Judge Roy Moore Poem

                          Original Ten Commandments

                               Christian Signs


Anti Gay Marriage Arguments

   The following article is from NoGayMarriage.com. Many other articles on
   sodomite marriage are available at this same website.

Gay Marriage: Why Would It Affect Me?

Ten Arguments Against Same Sex Marriage

   (This is a synopsis of the new book by Dr. James Dobson, Marriage Under
   Fire.)

Argument #1. Same Sex Marriage Decays Families

   The implications for children in a world of decaying families are
   profound. A recent article in the Weekly Standard described how the
   advent of legally sanctioned gay unions in Scandinavian countries has
   already destroyed the institution of marriage, where half of today's
   children are born out of wedlock.

   It is predicted now, based on demographic trends in this country, that
   more than half of the babies born in the 1990s will spend at least part
   of their childhood in single-parent homes.

   Social scientists have been surprisingly consistent in warning against
   this fractured family. If it continues, almost every child will have
   several "moms" and "dads," perhaps six or eight "grandparents," and
   dozens of half-siblings. It will be a world where little boys and girls
   are shuffled from pillar to post in an ever-changing pattern of living
   arrangements-where huge numbers of them will be raised in foster-care
   homes or living on the street (as millions do in other countries all
   over the world today). Imagine an environment where nothing is stable
   and where people think primarily about themselves and their own
   self-preservation.

   The apostle Paul described a similar society in Romans 1, which
   addressed the epidemic of homosexuality that was rampant in the ancient
   world and especially in Rome at that time. He wrote, "They have become
   filled with every kind of wickedness, evil, greed and depravity. They
   are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit and malice. They are gossips,
   slanderers, God-haters, insolent, arrogant and boastful; they invent
   ways of doing evil; they disobey their parents; they are senseless,
   faithless, heartless, ruthless" (v. 29-31, NIV).

   It appears likely now that the demise of families will accelerate this
   type of decline dramatically, resulting in a chaotic culture that will
   be devastating to children.

Argument #2. Gay Marriage Will Lead to Polygamy

   The introduction of legalized gay marriages will lead inexorably to
   polygamy and other alternatives to one-man, one-woman unions.

   In Utah, polygamist Tom Green, who claims five wives, is citing
   Lawrence v. Texas as the legal authority for his appeal. This past
   January, a Salt Lake City civil rights attorney filed a federal lawsuit
   on behalf of another couple wanting to engage in legal polygamy. Their
   justification? Lawrence v. Texas.

   The ACLU of Utah has actually suggested that the state will "have to
   step up to prove that a polygamous relationship is detrimental to
   society"-as opposed to the polygamists having to prove that plural
   marriage is not harmful to the culture. Do you see how the game is
   played? Despite 5,000 years of history, the burden now rests on you and
   me to prove that polygamy is unhealthy. The ACLU went on to say that
   the nuclear family "may not be necessarily the best model." Indeed,
   Justice Antonin Scalia warned of this likelihood in his statement for
   the minority in the Lawrence case.10 It took less than six months for
   his prediction to become reality.

   Why will gay marriage set the table for polygamy? Because there is no
   place to stop once that Rubicon has been crossed. Historically, the
   definition of marriage has rested on a bedrock of tradition, legal
   precedent, theology and the overwhelming support of the people.

   After the introduction of marriage between homosexuals, however, it
   will be supported by nothing more substantial than the opinion of a
   single judge or by a black-robed panel of justices. After they have
   done their wretched work, the family will consist of little more than
   someone's interpretation of "rights."

   Given that unstable legal climate, it is certain that some
   self-possessed judge, somewhere, will soon rule that three men and one
   woman can marry. Or five and two, or four and four. Who will be able to
   deny them that right? The guarantee is implied, we will be told, by the
   Constitution. Those who disagree will continue to be seen as
   hate-mongers and bigots. (Indeed, those charges are already being
   leveled against those of us who espouse biblical values!) How about
   group marriage, or marriage between relatives, or marriage between
   adults and children? How about marriage between a man and his donkey?
   Anything allegedly linked to "civil rights" will be doable. The legal
   underpinnings for marriage will have been destroyed.

Argument #3. States Will No Longer Protect Marriage

   An even greater objective of the homosexual movement is to end the
   state's compelling interest in marital relationships altogether. After
   marriages have been redefined, divorces will be obtained instantly,
   will not involve a court, and will take on the status of a driver's
   license or a hunting permit. With the family out of the way, all rights
   and privileges of marriage will accrue to gay and lesbian partners
   without the legal entanglements and commitments heretofore associated
   with it.

Argument #4. Children Will Be Taught Perversion

   With the legalization of homosexual marriage, every public school in
   the nation will be required to teach that this perversion is the moral
   equivalent of traditional marriage between a man and a woman.
   Textbooks, even in conservative states, will have to depict man/man and
   woman/woman relationships, and stories written for children as young as
   elementary school, or even kindergarten, will have to give equal space
   to homosexuals.

Argument #5. Children Will Be Placed in Gay Households

   From that point forward, courts will not be able to favor a traditional
   family involving one man and one woman over a homosexual couple in
   matters of adoption. Children will be placed in homes with parents
   representing only one sex on an equal basis with those having a mom and
   a dad. The prospect of fatherless and motherless children will not be
   considered in the evaluation of eligibility. It will be the law.

Argument #6. Parents Will Be Reuiqred to Accept Homosexuality in Their
Children

   Foster-care parents will be required to undergo "sensitivity training"
   to rid themselves of bias in favor of traditional marriage, and will
   have to affirm homosexuality in children and teens.

Argument #7. Gay Partners Will Burden the Government Entitlement System

   How about the impact on Social Security if there are millions of new
   dependents that will be entitled to survivor benefits? It will amount
   to billions of dollars on an already overburdened system. And how about
   the cost to American businesses? Unproductive costs mean fewer jobs for
   those who need them. Are state and municipal governments to be required
   to raise taxes substantially to provide health insurance and other
   benefits to millions of new "spouses and other dependents"?

Argument #8. Gay Marriage Will Spread Quickly to Other Countries

   Marriage among homosexuals will spread throughout the world, just as
   pornography did after the Nixon Commission declared obscene material
   "beneficial" to mankind.11 Almost instantly, the English-speaking
   countries liberalized their laws against smut. America continues to be
   the fountainhead of filth and immorality, and its influence is global.

   The point is that numerous leaders in other nations are watching to see
   how we will handle the issue of homosexuality and marriage. Only two
   countries in the world have authorized gay marriage to date-the
   Netherlands and Belgium. Canada is leaning in that direction, as are
   numerous European countries. Dr. Darrell Reid, president of Focus on
   the Family Canada, told me two weeks ago that his country is carefully
   monitoring the United States to see where it is going. If we take this
   step off a cliff, the family on every continent will splinter at an
   accelerated rate. Conversely, our U.S. Supreme Court has made it clear
   that it looks to European and Canadian law in the interpretation of our
   Constitution.13 What an outrage! That should have been grounds for
   impeachment, but the Congress, as usual, remained passive and silent.

Argument #9. Evangelism Will Be Hindered

   Perhaps most important, the spread of the Gospel of Jesus Christ will
   be severely curtailed. The family has been God's primary vehicle for
   evangelism since the beginning.

   Its most important assignment has been the propagation of the human
   race and the handing down of the faith to our children. Malachi 2:15
   reads, referring to husbands and wives, "Has not the Lord made them
   one? In flesh and spirit they are His. And why one? Because He was
   seeking godly offspring. So guard yourself in your spirit, and do not
   break faith with the wife of your youth" (NIV).

   That responsibility to teach the next generation will never recover
   from the loss of committed, God-fearing families. The younger
   generation and those yet to come will be deprived of the Good News, as
   has already occurred in France, Germany and other European countries.
   Instead of providing for a father and mother, the advent of homosexual
   marriage will create millions of motherless children and fatherless
   kids. This is morally wrong, and is condemned in Scripture. Are we now
   going to join the Netherlands and Belgium to become the third country
   in the history of the world to "normalize" and legalize behavior that
   has been prohibited by God himself? Heaven help us if we do!

Argument #10. The Culture Will Be Anti-Christian

   The culture war will be over, and I fear, the world may soon become "as
   it was in the days of Noah" (Matthew 24:37, NIV). This is the climactic
   moment in the battle to preserve the family, and future generations
   hang in the balance.

   This apocalyptic and pessimistic view of the institution of the family
   and its future will sound alarmist to many, but I think it will prove
   accurate unless-unless-God's people awaken and begin an even greater
   vigil of prayer for our nation. That's why Shirley and I are urgently
   seeking the Lord's favor and asking Him to hear the petitions of His
   people and heal our land.

   As of this time, however, large segments of the church appear to be
   unaware of the danger; its leaders are surprisingly silent about our
   peril (although we are tremendously thankful for the efforts of those
   who have spoken out on this issue). The lawless abandon occurring
   recently in California, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Washington and
   elsewhere should have shocked us out of our lethargy. So far, I'm
   alarmed to say, the concern and outrage of the American people have not
   translated into action.

   This reticence on behalf of Christians is deeply troubling. Marriage is
   a sacrament designed by God that serves as a metaphor for the
   relationship between Christ and His Church. Tampering with His plan for
   the family is immoral and wrong. To violate the Lord's expressed will
   for humankind, especially in regard to behavior that He has prohibited,
   is to court disaster.

   Galatians 5:14
   For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love
   thy neighbour as thyself.

Deuteronomy 25:5-8

Marriage Duty of the Surviving Brother

   5 “If brothers dwell together, and one of them dies and has no son, the
   widow of the dead man shall not be married to a stranger outside the
   family; her husband’s brother shall go in to her, take her as his wife,
   and perform the duty of a husband’s brother to her.

   6 And it shall be that the firstborn son which she bears will succeed
   to the name of his dead brother, that his name may not be blotted out
   of Israel.

   7 But if the man does not want to take his brother’s wife, then let his
   brother’s wife go up to the gate to the elders, and say, ‘My husband’s
   brother refuses to raise up a name to his brother in Israel; he will
   not perform the duty of my husband’s brother.’

   8 Then the elders of his city shall call him and speak to him. But if
   he stands firm and says, ‘I do not want to take her,’

No Gay Marriage bring you these Bible verses:

   Ecclesiastes 3:1
   To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the
   heaven: A time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a
   time to pluck up that which is planted;
   Galatians 6:9
   And let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap,
   if we faint not.
   Psalms 119:90
   Thy faithfulness is unto all generations: thou hast established the
   earth, and it abideth.
   1 Corinthians 13:13
   And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of
   these is charity.
   Psalms 16:11
   Thou wilt shew me the path of life: in thy presence is fulness of joy;
   at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore.


                                Bumpersticker

                              [bumper1_100.jpg]

                                 Signup for
                              Weekly Newsletter

                          If you are Gay Click here
                                    Gay?

                           Gay Marriage Amendment

                          Gay and Lesbian Marriage

                              Marriage Equality

                        Marriage Protection Amendment

             Sign up to become a Church Coordinator. click below
                             (Gay Marriage Ban)

                  Click here for state bans on gay marriage
                           (Ban Same Sex Marriage)

                                    Links
                            Ban Same Sex Marriage

                      Christian View Same Sex Marriage

                          Articles on Gay Marriage

                       Article on Homosexual Marriage

                        Bible and Homosexual Marriage

                       Westminster Confession of Faith

                              Septuagint Bible

                             Links and Resources

                              Ten Commandments

                             Marriage Amendment




            Email Page Print Page  Contact Us  Newsletter Signup
