   #search

     * (BUTTON)
     * Latest
          +
          +
          +
          +
     * Obsessions

These are the core obsessions that drive our newsroom—defining topics of
seismic importance to the global economy.
          +
          +
          +
          +
     * Featured
          +
          +
          +
          +
     *
     * Emails

Our emails are made to shine in your inbox, with something fresh every
morning, afternoon, and weekend.
          +
          +
          +
          +
     * Editions

Quartz is a guide to the new global economy for people excited by change.
          +

Quartz Africa
            The important stories of innovation across the continent’s
            wide-ranging economies
          +

Quartz India
            In-depth coverage of the world’s largest democracy for India
            and its far-flung diaspora
          +

Quartzy
            Lifestyle, culture, and living well in the new global economy
          +

Quartz at Work
            Management news, advice, and ideas for business leaders
          +

Atlas
            Create, share, and discover charts, using the same tools as
            the Quartz newsroom
     * Become a member
     * (BUTTON)

   EPA-EFE/David Chang
   ICYMI.
   PROGRESS

Asia made big strides in LGBT rights in 2017

   By Isabella StegerDecember 29, 2017

   In the end, Australia pipped Taiwan at the post to legalizing same-sex
   marriage, in a year of major achievements for LGBT rights in the
   Asia-Pacific region. Here’s a recap of the big and little steps forward
   that 2017 ushered in.

Taiwan

   For much of the year, Taiwan looked set to win the accolade of becoming
   the first country in Asia to make marriage equality a reality, after
   its top court ruled in May that the existing law that bans same-sex
   marriage is unconstitutional, and must be amended within two years. But
   progress on enshrining same-sex marriage in law in Taiwan has stalled,
   despite a pledge by its premier that the executive branch of government
   would send a same-sex marriage bill to the legislature in the current
   session, which is closing shortly. Meanwhile the backlog of same-sex
   marriage applications continues to pile up.

   Lawmaker Jason Hsu, a vocal proponent of marriage equality, said that
   with local elections slated for late 2018, it’s likely that no same-sex
   marriage bill will pass until early 2019, as a substantial portion of
   society still remains opposed to it. Nevertheless, Taipei continues to
   be the center of LGBT life in Asia, with its annual pride parade
   attracting record attendance—more than 100,000 people—from all around
   the region this year. And businesses are ready to welcome the a new set
   of wedding clients.
   Reuters/Mick Tsikas
   Two bride figurines adorn the top of a wedding cake for a 2009 ceremony
   to protest Australian lawmakers’ failure to end the gay marriage ban.

Australia

   In that time, Australia—which had stood out conspicuously as a Western
   democracy that still had not legalized gay marriage—finally moved on
   the issue after mounting pressure from advocacy groups, liberal
   politicians, and companies. A majority of Australians had been in
   support of gay marriage, but the issue had been held hostage by
   conservative forces in the political arena in Canberra. Prime minister
   Malcolm Turnbull, himself a supporter of marriage equality, agreed to
   hold a non-binding referendum on the issue via a postal ballot. Less
   than a month after the results re-affirmed majority support for
   marriage equality, parliament passed a bill legalizing same-sex
   marriage. The first gay marriages took place the same week after two
   lesbian couples were granted an exemption from the normal 30-day
   waiting period to marry. Other same-sex couples who’ve filed to marry
   could be celebrating as soon as the first week of 2018.

Japan

   Six local governments (paywall) in Japan now recognize same-sex
   partnerships, which ensures that gay couples are entitled to the same
   local benefits as heterosexual couples. The northern city of Sapporo
   became the first major city in Japan to recognize same-sex couples in
   June. Shibuya and Setagaya wards in Tokyo certified same-sex
   partnerships in 2015, followed by the municipalities of Iga, Naha, and
   Takarazuka last year.

   Even as Japan’s political classes and society at large remain
   conservative—Japan’s only openly gay lawmaker said that legalizing gay
   marriage on a national level is still years away from becoming
   reality—it’s clear that such attitudes are increasingly at odds with
   Japan’s youth. A video of a New Zealand lawmaker who made a speech on
   marriage equality in parliament went viral in Japan in response to
   comments made by a member of Japan’s ruling party who said that gay
   couples would not be welcome to attend banquets at the imperial palace.
   Japan’s conservative stance on LGBT rights will also increasingly come
   under the spotlight as the country tries to showcase itself as a
   welcoming and diverse destination as it tries to attract more skilled
   foreign workers to live and work there.

Hong Kong

   Hong Kong, one of the world’s major financial centers and home to many
   foreign workers, has for years seen little progress on the LGBT front
   despite growing calls from civil society and the private sector to
   improve rights for sexual minorities. Still, two legal challenges
   offered some hope in 2017. In April, a court found that the partner of
   a Hong Kong civil servant—the two had married overseas—was entitled to
   the same benefits as a heterosexual spouse. The hearings in the Hong
   Kong government’s appeal against the decision began this month.

   Then, in September, a court ruled in favor of a lesbian expatriate
   couple seeking to be treated on par with heterosexual couples by the
   immigration department. The Hong Kong government is seeking to appeal
   that decision too and if it is allowed, that could be heard next year
   or in 2019. In the meantime, according to the law firm that represented
   the British couple, “the law in Hong Kong now is that foreign
   registered same-sex marriages and civil partnerships shall be
   recognised by the Immigration Department for dependant visa purposes.”
   Since the legal situation is in flux, it’s not clear that same-sex
   married couples can actually count on that for the moment.

China

   How Hwee Young/EPA
   Aboard the Glory Sea cruise, organized in June by a prominent Chinese
   LGBT group.

   Amid a worsening crackdown on civil society groups in mainland China,
   there was little substantial progress on the LGBT front—indeed, in the
   months leading up to a crucial Communist Party meeting in October, a
   number of events hosted by LGBT groups were forced by authorities to be
   canceled. Given the climate, one prominent gay rights organization
   decided to rent a cruise ship to hold a major annual gathering.
   Nevertheless, society is becoming more accepting of LGBT people,
   particularly in cities. “Signals from the state are fragmented and
   contradictory. Regardless, society is rapidly becoming more open
   and—even despite setbacks—the LGBT community is becoming increasingly
   visible,” said Darius Longarino, senior fellow at Yale Law School’s
   Paul Tsai China Center.
   ____________________

Tags

   Japan, qzasia, gay marriage, marriage equality, lgbt rights
   Created with Sketch.LatestCreated with Sketch.FeaturedCreated with
   Sketch.ObsessionsCreated with Sketch.EmailsEditions
   (BUTTON) Close

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MRD738C
