   Follow
   JOIN
   (Submit)
   Log In
     * Benefits Overview
     * Exclusive Content
     * My Account
     * Log Out

   Cheat SheetPoliticsEntertainmentWorld NewsHalf FullArts and CultureU.S.
       NewsTechHunt for the CureScienceScoutedTravel

   ‹ Homepage

Equality

Obama Gave Us Gay Marriage, Trump The Honeymoon From Hell

   The fight for marriage equality drove LGBT politics in the first decade
   of The Daily Beast's life. Now campaigners are fighting to save it and
   other key protections under Trump.

Tim Teeman

   10.04.18 6:15 PM ET
   [180928-Teeman-Obama-Gave-Us-gay-marriage-tease_zigqrt]

Photo Illustration by Kelly Caminero/The Daily Beast

   In October 2008 The Daily Beast was born, just days before Connecticut
   became the third U.S. state to legalize gay marriage, and a month
   before Proposition 8 was passed in California, which overturned that
   state’s ruling the previous May that had legalized gay marriage.
   (Marriage equality eventually became law in California in 2013.)

   The last 10 years in American LGBT politics featured marriage equality
   as a red-button pivot, motivating activists pro and anti. That
   struggle, its hangover and practical and ideological remnants, is still
   being contested.

   Following a momentous SCOTUS ruling, marriage equality was finally
   legalized nationwide in 2015; the White House that June evening was
   wreathed in the colors of the rainbow to mark both the key civil-rights
   victory and Pride month.

   But ever since President Donald Trump’s election, the victory and
   meaning of marriage equality—so hard fought, and a brilliant
   achievement—has become imperiled.

   Justice Anthony Kennedy, who wrote the searingly-phrased ruling in the
   case of Obergefell v. Hodges, has retired. He was also the deciding
   vote in the key LGBT-focused SCOTUS cases of Romer v. Evans, Lawrence
   v. Texas, and Windsor v. the United States (culminating in the striking
   down in 2013 of the discriminatory section of the Defense of Marriage
   Act, with the inspirational Edie Windsor as its figurehead).

   President Trump is filling the Supreme Court’s empty spots with
   conservative justices: Neil Gorsuch is in place, Brett Kavanaugh, at
   the time of writing, is awaiting confirmation. The fiercely religious
   Vice President Mike Pence has long made clear his animus to the LGBT
   community, and now holds the zealotry-gilded keys to the political
   kingdom.

   Those opposed to LGBT equality have a new drum to march behind:
   religious liberty. The new guard at the White House, with Pence and
   Attorney General Jeff Sessions at their ideological forefront, have
   chosen an insidious scythe to chop away at not just marriage equality
   but also other equality and anti-discrimination measures and
   protections.

   Jim Obergefell himself wrote for Time, “With Kennedy’s retirement, I am
   concerned that the backlash is going to turn into a complete ripping
   away of every bit of equality—every bit of progress—we’ve made over
   these decades.”

   ‘Religious liberty,’ as evidenced in the Masterpiece Cakeshop case,
   posits that it is fine to not marry gay people, or serve them in shops,
   or afford them equality of treatment when it comes to adoption and
   fostering if you, as a religious person, disapprove of them. Sessions
   has even set up the Orwellian-sounding Religious Liberty Task Force to
   search out, and help, all those who feel their ‘religious liberties’
   and ‘religious freedoms’ are being trespassed upon them by having to
   treat LGBT people equally.

   The attacks on LGBT people, using “religious liberty,” has coincided
   with a period of particular trans-focused prejudice. President Trump
   has announced his determination to ban trans people from serving in the
   military. States like Texas have tried to pass ‘bathroom bans’ (and in
   Texas’ case will possibly try once more after failing the first time),
   which seek to regulate where trans people can and cannot use toilets in
   public.

   Meanwhile, trans people are being murdered and are victims of violence,
   which oddly doesn’t seem to bother the conservatives who have sought to
   make their lives so miserable and legally curtailed.

   If the LGBT hope of the Obama era has dissipated when it comes to the
   country’s legislators, in pop culture, progress is being made in terms
   of LGBT representation. Not enough—but still, characters, stories and
   shows on screen, including in the Oscar-winning Moonlight and Call Me
   By Your Name, have shown a sated thirst and hunger for new LGBT
   narratives.

   Those cultural battles on screen seem—presently at least—to be bearing
   more fruit than the fights on Capitol Hill and in courthouses. As The
   Daily Beast enters its second decade, the prevailing LGBT feeling is
   worry, concern, and the feeling that not only is marriage equality
   under threat, but so much else as well.

   Hearteningly, the energy of LGBT campaigners of many ages and
   experiences is rising to meet such challenges, grave and ill-portending
   as they are.

   As Obergefell wrote for Time: "I’m not just worried about the LGBTQ
   community. I’m scared for women’s rights, for voting rights. I’m scared
   for every marginalized group in this nation who relies upon the Supreme
   Court to live up to those four words etched into the building’s western
   pediment: Equal Justice Under Law.”

Keep Reading for more Daily Beast 10th Anniversary Coverage:

READ THIS LIST

     * Politics
     * Entertainment
     * World News
     * Half Full
     * Arts and Culture
     * U.S. News
     * Tech
     * Hunt for the Cure
     * Science
     * Scouted
     * Travel

     * About
     * Contact
     * Tips
     * Jobs
     * Help
     * Privacy
     * Code of Ethics & Standards
     * Terms & Conditions
     * Copyright & Trademark
     * Sitemap
     * Privacy Settings

   © 2019 The Daily Beast Company LLC
   Advertise With Us
